From Geoffrey Anyanwu, Enugu  More condemnations have trailed the Ex-Governors’ Pension Bill currently on the floor of the Enugu State House of Assembly with the Enugu State Continuity and Equity Movement (ESCEM), describing it disappointing and misappropriation of priorities.  The Executive Bill which has passed first reading in the House, has since its introduction witnessed outrageous rejection by the masses of the state who have warned the Legislators to kill the Bill without further delay.  The Bill has also become the frontline discussion in every radio or television programme in the state and at various news stands in the state capital with the citizens threatening fire and brimstone against the State Lawmakers should they refuse to hearken to the voice of reasoning and go ahead to pass the Bill to law.  ESCEM which is an Enugu based socio-political pressure group, added that the obnoxious Bill seeking for a law to provide life pension for former Governors and Deputy Governors of Enugu State, if passed would amount to legislative rascality.  In a statement signed by Hon. Chukwuebuka Aneke and Comrade Onyendozi E. Onwe, Acting State Coordinator and State Publicity Secretary respectively, the group wondered why a Bill of such nature would be a subject of deliberation at a time the state was facing numerous challenges that required urgent legislative input.  “This Bill is a pointer that our legislators are unaware of the acute scarcity of water in the city of Enugu. We challenge our lawmakers to initiate a Bill seeking to criminalize nonpayment of gratuity and pensions to state retired civil servants as at and when due.  “We challenge our lawmakers to come up with a Bill seeking to create a ‘Infrastructural Maintenance Commission,’ and also a Bill to create an Agency for Job Creation and Economic Empowerment for our teeming unemployed youths in the state.  “This is the type of Bills we wish to see in the hallowed Chamber of Enugu Assembly and not a legislation that would make state government pay millions of Naira to former Governors and Deputy Governors.”  The group therefore, called on the good people of Enugu state to stand up against “this obnoxious bill” that intended to serve the interest of the privileged few at the detriment of the suffering citizens. 