By Ozichukwu Chukwu Iconic mentor, quintessential statesman Love him, hate him Has infused composite generations With character and confidence Re-engaging in adventures of bygone era; Yielding and healing; Crafting rhymes of history and hope. It takes courage to lead a vanguard, Wisdom to be a statesman, And patriotism to be both. Torch-bearer of all times; The puzzle of our era, An enigma. Touched lives and ignited places; Turned between conscience and necessity; Blooming in personal tragedies and rejoicing in tribulations; No one has been so blessed In this strange romance of “warriors” With hunches and punches This place is volatile The stage is crowded Witnessing a testimony of enduring beliefs Too many battles and no battle field But the native boy is never lost in the land Hear some singing And some wailing Blurring the rediscovery of lost roots, Lost mind and voice; The animation of History That heralded the siege and silent era. All were united in facts But separated by fate and in faith As superstition and paranoia hold sway None could pull out from the tiresome game of ego preservation. And from a toxic environment Reinvented the medieval with fatal masquerades. In Abuja, the wilderness of astonishing beauty And brutal exclusion You refused the path of wheel tracks; and rode Through celebration Highway; The guard tower was in your mind; but the radar your reflexes, You changed the paradigm. Today History holds spellbound In retrospect I imagine The injuries, pains,anguish and scar, Those legacies in the cloud. Grandmasters and Supreme Dames Now face to face with truth Will neither blink nor go blank The subconscious has awoken. Now the weather is clear The bones will rise again Those rock-solid mixtures the “rains will wash away; Winds  whip into dust clouds, Torrents carve out the unstable.” If it’s “Not My Will”; Can we say, “God wills it.” As you keep building bridges, Mending fences Rebuilding broken walls Summoning all to the objective square With a spirit of forgiveness and forbearance. Time is all-powerful Fill the trenches, cover the ditches, The man I know The Enigma Always will to dialogue And to change, which Again and again he’s done Living all at no risk, at the crossroads Today we share your passion And live with the lessons As the dust settles It creates more dust And the hurricane sweeps away The footsteps, The wind erases the fingerprints. Slip but don’t fall With hope we remain in This long march in dry times It shall be well. 