Nigeria’s leading hygiene and household disinfectant brand, JIK, has announced a strategic endorsement with the National Association of Nigeria Nurses and Midwives (NANNM) to promote hygiene practices in Nigeria. This partnership is in line with JIK’s long-term vision to realise a world where families are safe from illness-causing germs and viruses. NANNM is a professional-cum trade union organization of all professional nurses and midwives who are trained, registered, and licensed to practice the nursing profession at all the levels of the healthcare delivery system. According to the brand, the strategic endorsement deal will enable Reckitt Benckiser (RB Nigeria), through its brand JIK, to further encourage good hygiene practices in communities and the public through several far-reaching bouquets of programmes. It will also help to create and release public awareness messages, campaigns, and sponsorship on public health and personal hygiene to promote and increase awareness of health and hygiene matters among the public. Speaking on the endorsement, Country Manager, RB Hygiene West Africa, Asif Hashimi said, “Our endorsement by the NANNM is a perfect feat since we both share a common objective to promote good hygiene practices. Nurses are most times the first point of call when individuals get ill, with this endorsement, we can collaborate to drive high standards in hygiene practices. With JIK, our fight is to empower individuals to keep their families safe from illness-causing germs and viruses.’’ He added: “It is a critical time globally, and this partnership with the NANNM will help to further amplify our message of good hygiene practices. Over the years, Nigerians have come to trust JIK to keep their homes in a good sanitary state and help curb the spread of infectious diseases in their families, this endorsement by NANNM will further help to entrench trust. JIK is safe for the environment as it kills 99.9 per cent of illness-causing germs on surfaces, laundry, and in the environment.” In his remarks, General Secretary, NANNM, Comrade Thomas Shettima, said the association was proud to identify with JIK. “Reckitt Benckiser’s products are well-tested and the efficacy of their products – especially JIK, is not in doubt; the reason for our endorsement. We are confident that this will further promote the acceptance of the brand. “With the memorandum of understanding signing, the association has granted RB the exclusive right to use its official logo on all its JIK products and brand materials. Every RB’s advertising material for JIK products and brands on all media platforms will likewise carry the association’s official endorsement and logo.” 