From Clement Adeyi, Osogbo The Ogiyan of Ejigbo Land, Oba Omowonuola Oyesosin, has lauded Governor Adegboyega Oyetola of Osun State for what he described as his people-oriented governance and his unalloyed love for the community and the people. The monarch stated this when the Special Adviser to Governor Adegboyega Oyetola on Civic Engagement, Honourable Bosun Oyintiloye, paid a working visit to his palace and major central mosques in the community. “It is of great delight to us as a community that aside the massive refurbishment of our general hospital which was the first to receive Oyetola’s intervention throughout the state, he has equally given attention to the Ejigbo- Osogbo Road which was a death trap,” Oba Oyesosin said. “Apart from wearing a toga of humility, kindness and listening quality, his administration is so productive that we can’t think twice to reciprocate his unique gesture with massive support towards his reelection in office next year. Even, we will always anticipate to have a man of his unique attributes to succeed him after his eight years,” he added. “Oyetola has performed tremendously in the general administration of the state as this has brought a new dawn to our polity. As we are seeing his goodwill in Ejigbo, so also others are witnessing it across the length and breath of Osun.” Oba Oyesosin also eulogized the governor for his unrequited respect for the traditional institutions which has precipitated the cordiality and healthy relationship between the state government and the traditional council. In the same vein, the grand Imam of Ejigbo Central Mosque, Sheikh Omotokese, and the Chief Imam of Ansarudeen Central Mosque, Sheikh Salahudeen also appreciated Oyetola for his dynamic leadership. They commended him for his intervention in rehabilitating Ejigbo General hospital, Primary Health Centres, township road and other related government projects. The clerics urged the people to always maintain strict adherence to the protocols guiding the COVID-19 pandemic. They expressed delight that Oyetola’s administration had shown commitment to ensuring the general wellbeing of the people. Oyintiloye appreciated the community for acknowledging the wondrous performance of the governor, stressing that the governor was resolute in making life better for the people of the state. He also reassured the people that Oyetola would not relent in bringing more dividends of democracy to the people in the state. He however, enjoined the people of the community to ensure they comply with the guidelines of COVID-19 as laid down by the government. He noted that the second wave was deadlier than the first outbreak. 