Real Madrid defender, Raphael Varane will be sold in the summer transfer window if he does not commit to fresh terms in the Spanish capital, according to reports. The 27-year-old has been heavily linked with Manchester United in recent months, with Ole Gunnar Solskjaer keen to add another centre-back to his ranks before the start of next season. Varane has stepped up to the plate in the absence of captain Sergio Ramos in Madrid, playing the full 90 minutes in each of his side’s last 18 La Liga outings. He remains contracted to the 13-time European champions until the summer of 2022 but is yet to extend his stay by signing a new deal. Real are eager to keep him at the club but are resigned to the fact that he will need to be sold if negotiations fail to produce a favourable outcome, according to the Daily Mail. The report claimed that the Spanish giants cannot afford to risk losing Varane for free when his contract expires, as a result of the financial uncertainty caused by the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. His departure would be a huge blow to Real’s hopes of maintaining their domestic dominance and fighting for another Champions League title. However, the funds raised by Varane’s potential sale would boost the club’s chances of landing either Kylian Mbappe or Erling Haaland, who have both been tipped to join the Spanish giants in the near future. Real are said to value the defender at around £60million, with United keeping a close eye on his developing situation. Their hopes of keeping Varane have been amplified by the possible departure of Ramos, who is currently in the midst of a contract standoff with the club’s hierarchy. Bayern Munich stalwart David Alaba was believed to be closing in on a free transfer in order to replace the veteran defender, but reports have claimed that Real are unwilling to match his extortionate salary demands, which could open the door for another club to swoop for the Austria international. It has also been suggested that Ramos could eventually decide to stay in the Spanish capital, signing a two-year deal that would take him through to the end of his professional career. Despite United’s interest in Varane, it seems as though they could face a battle to land the defender even if he fails to sign a new deal between now and the end of the season. Real manager Zinedine Zidane claimed in November that Varane is an irreplaceable member of the side, suggesting that all parties are eager to resolve the uncertainty of his situation as quickly as possible. “He is part of this club, and we were very lucky to be able to bring him to Madrid,” Zidane told reporters. 