 From Stanley Uzoaru, Owerri The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has threatened to move into Benue State with its Eastern Security Network (ESN) if urgent steps are not taken by the State ,governor, Samuel Ortom to protect Igbos in his State. In a statement by the media and publicity secretary of the group, Emma Powerful, it noted that IPOB is no longer comfortable with the alleged terrorising of Igbos in the State. Accoording to the statement “It has become very imperative that we the Indigenous People of Biafra, ably led by Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, to bring to the attention of Gov. Samuel Ortom of Benue State how Fulani terrorists masquerading as herdsmen are terrorizing Igbo communities in his state. ” The unprovoked genocidal attacks by these murderous bands have intensified in the last one week. “The world has to be aware of this atrocity which has persisted obviously because the Governor failed to rise to his responsibility of protecting lives and property of these innocent Igbo communities in his state.” Powerful stated. Powerful has also alleged that recently,  Fulani herdsmen disguised as  soldiers, and abducted so many people in some Igbo communities in the State, while frowning at their action, it warned that ESN will have no choice to move into  Benue State. “Governor  Samuel Ortom  must take
responsibility for securing these communities or IPOB would move in our gallant Eastern Security Network, ESN operatives to do the needful. “For weeks now the people are being terrorized by hooded Fulani military men on evil mission.
These communities are  living in fears and some have already ran away from their homes. “We can never allow Fulani terrorists to decimate any Biafran community. We will no longer tolerate any unprovoked attack against our people irrespective of where they reside. ” Governor Ortom must act now or ESN will rise to the occasion, ESN  will launch a serious operation to chase the killer Fulani out of Benue if Gov Samuel Ortom cannot protect Igbo Biafrans living in Benue. “The Benue government must as a matter of urgency ensure that the Chief of Ataloga and others abducted are released , and no harm befalls them , otherwise, ESN will unleash its venon in the state against the Fulani. “Based on our findings, Igbo villages under siege now in Izi, Oju LGA of Benue State are:  Edele village, Ogbala Izi village, Onyenu village, Obokata village, Ekpuphu village and Idele Izi  village. “Others include: Ndi Nwankwo village,  Osidi village , Usebe village, Eka village, Ikari village , Ameka village, Edear village and others.  Powerful said. However, he said that the worst hit of Fulani herdsmen attack in the State is in Ataloga community where men in military uniform he alleged  kidnapped three innocent locals. The victims he said include Chief of the community, Mazi Boniface;  IPOB Coordinator and the youth leader of Ndigwe community. Others include Chief Simon Nweke from Ndiighe in Ado LGA; and Patrick Nweke, Youth President of Ndiighe in Ado LGA. 