From Tony Osauzo, Benin Ahead of the 2023 general elections, the Edo State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), yesterday, demanded that the party’s presidential slot be zoned to the South South to enable it complete its Presidency term. The state chairman of the party, Tony Aziegbemi, who made the demand while addressing journalists in Benin City to mark his one year in office, argued that the zone was shortchanged when president Jonathan was stopped from getting a second term. “As 2023 approaches, I humbly submit that our party have eminent men and women from across the six zones of the country that can lead us to victory. Our zone south-south I believe was short changed when president Jonathan was stopped from getting a second term. With that in mind, and with the quality of leaders from the zone, We demand that our party, PDP, must zone the Presidency to the south-south to at least right the wrong that was inflicted. “Our Zone, South-South is the most “PDPcentric” zone in the country with all the states being governed by PDP and all the Governors performing excellently well. We wish to place on record that we are very proud of all our Governors in the zone. It is the most “Nigerianized” and contributes immensely to the federation purse. We have the buccaneering spirit, gritty resolve, give and take, a conviction that everyone is entitled to the same dignity, courtesy, and esteem. These values of integrity, impartiality and merit have proved timeless and are a decisive legacy of our founding fathers”, he said. Aziegbemi stated‎ that the election of Mr. Godwin Obaseki as governor during last year September 19 gubernatorial election in the state was a partial fulfillment of his promise to return PDP to government after 11 years of being out of power. “I believe that we have laid a solid foundation. I believe our victory in the last general election is a testimony that Edo people trust us and believe in the vision of the Governor and the Party. It is now time to build upon the foundation we laid so that we can sustain Edo PDP in government over many election cycles”, he said. On why governor Obaseki why was yet to appoint members of his cabinet, Aziegbemi said it was intentional, add‎ing that the Transition Committee was yet to submit its report. He however pointed out that “it would have been suicidal if the appointments were‎ made without the Committee’s report which he said would be submitted at the end of this month. On when Local Government Coouncil election would hold in the state, the PDP Chirman said “Council election would hold when all that needs to be done is in place”. Earlier, members of‎ the Edo State Executives of the PDP had done Thanksgiving at the St. Maria Goretti Catholic Church, off Sakponba road, Benin City as part of activities to mark their one year in office. 