BY PHILIP NWOSU The Nigerian Navy has announced major shake up of its officers, redeploying its five Flag Officers Commanding (FOCs, GOCs equivalent in the Nigerian Army) of its major units across the country. The major postings involved a total of 257 senior officers, and affected 60 Rear Admirals, (Two star generals,)  123 commodores (one star generals) and 74 captains, (Colonel equivalents in the Nigerian Army). In a statement release Saturday, the Director of Naval Information (DINFO) Commodore Suleman Dahun said new FOCs had been appointed for the Western Naval Command, Naval Training Command (NAVTRAC), Eastern Naval Command, Logistics Command and Central Naval Command. The statement said Rear Admiral Barabutemegha Gbassa, formerly Director Projects Monitoring, Defence Headquarters is now the Flag Officer Commanding Western Naval Command, while Rear Admiral Kennedy Egbuchulam moves  from Naval Headquarters to Central Naval Command as Flag Officer Commanding. Also, Rear Admiral Sanusi Ibrahim, formerly Director of Manning, Naval Headquarters takes over as Flag Officer Commanding Eastern Naval Command, while Rear Admiral Sileranda Lassa has been reappointed as Flag Officer Commanding Logistics Command. The Navy also announced the appointment of Rear Admiral Kamarudeen Lawal, formerly Chief of Naval Standards and Safety, as Flag Officer Commanding Naval Training Command, Lagos, while  Rear Admiral Abraham Adaji, formerly Group Managing Director, Nigerian Navy Holdings Limited is appointed Chief of Training and Operations, Naval Headquarters. The full posting is as follows; “In the postings, Rear Admiral Francis Isaac, formerly the Navy Secretary, has been appointed Chief of Administration, Naval Headquarters while Rear Admiral Abraham Adaji, formerly Group Managing Director, Nigerian Navy Holdings Limited is now the Chief of Training and Operations, Naval Headquarters. Rear Admiral Danjuma Dogonyaro moves to Naval Doctrine and Assessment Centre, Lagos as Admiral Superintendent, while Rear Admiral Taiye Imam has been reappointed Director of Administration, Naval Headquarters. Rear Admiral Elkanah Jaiyeola has been reappointed Moderator at the National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies and Rear Admiral Baribuma Kole has also been reappointed Director Foreign Liaison Directorate. “The postings also affected Rear Admiral Jatau Luka who moves from Defence Intelligence Agency to Defence Headquarters as Director of Education, while Rear Admiral Raimi Mohammed, formerly Director at the Defence Headquarters resumes as Director of Plans, Naval Headquarters. Similarly, Rear Admiral Yaminu Musa has been reappointed Coordinator Counter Terrorism Centre at the Office of the National Security Adviser, while Rear Admiral Ibikunle Olaiya, formerly Chief of Training and Operations, Naval Headquarters is now the Director of Plans, Defence Headquarters. “Rear Admiral Idowu Yusuf, formerly Director of Plans Naval Headquarters has been reappointed to Naval Headquarters as Chief of Naval Transformation. Additionally, Rear Admiral Kamarudeen Lawal, formerly Chief of Naval Standards and Safety, resumes as Flag Officer Commanding Naval Training Command, Lagos, while Rear Admiral Othaniel Filafa has been reappointed Director Veteran Affairs, Naval Headquarters. Rear Admiral Abdullahi Adamuhas also been appointed Chief of Defence Administration, Defence Headquarters. Rear Admiral OladeleDaji resumes as Commandant National Defence College from Headquarters Western Naval Command where he was the Flag Officer Commanding, while Rear Admiral Maurice Eno, formerly Director at Defence Headquarters moves to Navy Holdings Limited as Group Managing Director. Rear Admiral Williams Kayoda has been reappointed as Chief of Defence Space Administration, Defence Headquarters, while Rear Admiral Christian Ezekobe has been appointed as Chief of Policy and Plans, Naval Headquarters. “The reorganization also affected Rear Admiral Frederick Ogu, formerly the Flag Officer Commanding Naval Training Command who is now appointed Chief of Defence Civil Military Cooperation and Rear Admiral Akano Adesope who resumes as Moderator at the National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies from Nigerian Defence Academy. Rear Admiral Kennedy Egbuchulam has been moved from Naval Headquarters to Central Naval Command as Flag Officer Commanding, while Rear Admiral Nnamdi Muogilim has been reappointed as Director of Equipment, Standardization and Harmonization, Defence Headquarters. Rear Admiral Perry Onwuzulike who was Fleet Commander, Eastern Fleet is now Director Lessons Learnt, Naval Headquarters, while Rear Admiral Akinga Ayafa has been reappointed to Naval Headquarters as Chief of Naval Standards and Safety. Rear Admiral Nuhu Bala, formerly Director of Transformation, Naval Headquarters resumes at the Defence Headquarters as Director Project Monitoring. Rear Admiral OkonEyo moves from Naval Headquarters Abuja to Defence Headquarters as Director of Training, while Rear Admiral Saidu Garba, formerly Flag Officer Commanding Central Naval Command takes over as Navy Secretary at Naval Headquarters. Similarly, Rear Admiral Barabutemegha Gbassa, formerly Director Projects Monitoring, Defence Headquarters is now the Flag Officer Commanding Western Naval Command, while Rear Admiral Aminu Hassan who was Director Naval Intelligence has been appointed as Force Commander Joint Task Force Operation DELTA SAFE. Rear Admiral Uduak Ibanga resumes at Naval Headquarters as Director Project Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation Directorate, while Rear Admiral Sanusi Ibrahim, formerly Director of Manning, Naval Headquarters takes over as Flag Officer Commanding Eastern Naval Command. Rear Admiral Sileranda Lassa has been reappointed as Flag Officer Commanding Logistics Command while Rear Admiral Danjuma Moses moves to Naval Headquarters as Director of Policy from Headquarters Western Fleet. Rear Admiral Muhammad Nagenu, the immediate past Director Project Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation Directorate, Naval Headquarters has been appointed as Chief of Logistics, Naval Headquarters, while Rear Admiral Vincent Okeke, formerly Chief Staff Officer, Naval Training Command resumes at Naval Headquarters as Director of Transformation. Rear Admiral Yakubu Wambai has been reappointed as Director of Training, Naval Headquarters, while Rear Admiral Emmanuel Beckley, the former Fleet Commander, Central Fleet is the new Director of Logistics, Defence Headquarters. Furthermore, Rear Admiral Solomon Agada who was the Chief Staff Officer, Central Naval Command has been redeployed to Naval Headquarters as Director Peace Keeping Operations, while Rear Admiral Murtala Bashir, formerly Director of Operations, Naval Headquarters takes over as Commandant Naval War College Nigeria. Rear Admiral Bamidele Oluwagbamila has been reappointed to Naval Headquarters as Director of Research and Development, while Rear Admiral Tanko Pani, the immediate past Chief Staff Officer, Western Naval Command is the new Admiral Superintendent Naval Ordnance Depot. Rear Admiral Adeseye Ayobanjo, formerly Commandant Naval War College Nigeria moves to Naval Headquarters as Director of Operations, while Rear Admiral Chukwu Okafor has been reappointed as the Hydrographer of the Nigerian Navy. Rear Admiral Ibrahim Dewu has also been reappointed as Managing Director Nigerian Navy Hotels and Suites Limited, while Rear Admiral Zakariyyah Muhammad, formerly Fleet Commander Western Fleet takes over as Director of Recruitment,Reserve and Resettlement, Naval Headquarters. Rear Admiral Ibrahim Shettima, the former Commander Nigerian Navy Ship BEECROFT is the new Managing Director Naval Building and Construction Company Limited, while Rear Admiral Monday Unurhiere, the immediate past Deputy Commandant, Armed Forces Command and Staff College Jaji resumes at Headquarters Naval Training Command as Chief Staff Officer. Rear Admiral Sulaiman El-Ladan has also been reappointed to Naval Headquarters as Chief of Naval Engineering. The new postings also redeployed Rear Admiral Idi Abbas, formerly Commander Nigerian Navy Ship VICTORY to Headquarters Central Naval Command as Chief Staff Officer, while Rear Admiral Mohammed Abdullahi has been reappointed to Naval Headquarters as Commander Command Naval Drafting. Rear Admiral Istifanus Albara, a Moderator at the National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies, has been appointed as Director of Communication and Information Technology, Naval Headquarters, while Rear Admiral Samson Bura, formerly Commander Nigerian Navy Ship PATHFINDER takes over as Director Air, Naval Headquarters. Rear Admiral Olusola Oluwagbire, a Directing Staff at the National Defence College has been appointed as Chief Staff Officer, Eastern Naval Command, while Rear Admiral Mustapha Hassan, formerly Commandant Nigerian Navy Ship QUORRA takes over as Chief Staff Officer, Logistics Command. Rear Admiral Baratuaipri Iyalla, who was Director of Project, Naval Headquarters is now the new Managing Director, Naval Engineering Services Limited, while Rear Admiral Kohath Levi has been reappointed Admiral Superintendent Naval Dockyard Limited. Rear Admiral Patrick Nwatu, formerly Principal Staff Officer to Chief of the Naval Staff is now appointed Deputy Commandant, Armed Forces Command and Staff College, Jaji, while Rear Admiral Habila Zakaria is now the new Chief Staff Officer Western Naval Command. Rear Admiral Joseph Akpan has been reappointed Director Personnel Release, Naval Headquarters, while Rear Admiral Olumuyiwa Olotu resumes at Naval Headquarters as Director of Manning. 