By Christopher Oji, Lagos The Lagos State Police Command on Monday deployed community policing special constables to formations across the state. A press statement by Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) Olumuyiwa Adejobi, reads: ‘The Commissioner of Police, Lagos State Police Command, CP Hakeem Odumosu, today Monday, 25th of January, at the Command headquarters, Ikeja, addressed the newly trained Community Policing Special Constables drawn from all the Local Government Councils in the state on the ethics and Standard Operating Prosecure of the Community Policing Project. ‘Hakeem Odumosu emphasised on their approved duties to complement the police including intelligence gathering, traffic control, joint patrol with the police and any other duties that their DPOs might deem necessary to providing security for lives and property. The special constables are being deployed to the 110 (one hundred and ten) Divisional Police headquarters across Lagos State with immediate effect. ‘He warned them to desist from any act that is illegal and detrimental to the image of the police and capable of jeopardising the purpose for which Community Policing was established. CP Hakeem Odumosu read out riot acts to them on the “dos” and “don’ts” of the police. ‘He reminded them that they are no longer raw civilians but refined and trained individuals who are liable and responsible for their actions and inactions as they will be treated according to the provisions of the Nigeria Police Act and Regulations. The police boss admonished them to shun misuse of power, extortion, abuse of office, violation of human rights and any inappropriate behaviours contrary to the provisions of the extant laws of the Country. ‘The Commissioner of Police ,however, appealed to the general public to extend supports to the special constables who are to assist in providing adequate security for all and sundry in the state. He also urged them to report any illegal and/or inappropriate acts of the Special constables to the Command for necessary action. ‘After their deployment, the Commissioner of Police still addressed the Area Commanders, DPOs and HODs in the state, at the POWA Hall, Oduduwa,Ikeja, in order to review and improve on the general security network of Lagos State. ‘Odumosu briefed them on the deployment of the Special constables and their duties in their various formations. He also charged them to supervise the men and work towards having better policing of their areas and the state at large. ‘The police boss siezed the opportunity to re-echo the comnand’s zero tolerance for violation of COVID-19 protocols in the state. He then ordered due enforcement of all COVID-19 protocols and other laws in Lagos State.’  Click Here>>>>>>Anti-kidnap and anti-theft device for tracking and listening<<<<<< 