Seplat Petroleum Development Company Plc, has appointed Mr. Okechukwu Mba, as the new Managing Director of ANOH Gas Processing Company (AGPC) Limited, the Incorporated Joint Venture (“IJV”) between Seplat and the Nigerian Gas Company (“NGC”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (“NNPC”). ANOH Gas Processing Company (AGPC) Limited is a midstream gas company committed to processing gas from OML 53 for distribution to the local market. His appointment takes effect from January 1, 2021. 
Okechukwu has over 20 years of experience with a diversified background covering commercial, planning, finance and operations. Before his appointment, he held the position of General Manager, Gas Business. In that capacity, Okechukwu transformed Seplat’s gas business into an industry-recognized leading supplier of gas into the domestic market up to 400MMscfd of gas to a diversified portfolio of customers.
He was responsible for delivering new gas projects, domestic and regional Gas Sale Agreements (GSA), new gas business development, GSA operations, revenue collection, customer relations and overall implementation of Board-approved gas strategy.  Before that role, Okechukwu served as Seplat’s General Manager, Commercial. In that capacity, he led the successful delivery of several commercial agreements and managed treasury, tax, and insurance functions.  Before Seplat, Okechukwu worked with Mobil Producing Nigeria and BG (British Gas) Nigeria, managing the planning and budget function. He started his career with Arthur Andersen as a Tax Consultant.
Okechukwu plays an active role in the oil and gas industry and recently served as the OPTS Gas Subcommittee’s elected Chairman. He has a keen interest in the gas to the power value chain. As a trusted advisor to key industry stakeholders, Okechukwu is regularly invited to domestic and international conferences to share his unique perspectives on the gas to the power value chain. He has a strong passion for developing people and spends time coaching and mentoring young professionals.
Okechukwu has a first-class degree in Accounting and is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN). He has taken a post-graduate course in Finance from Manchester Business School and an executive study from Harvard Business School on a continuous quest for development.
eral Manager, External Affairs and Communications at SEPLAT; and NNPC likewise recently appointed Mrs Rose N. Eshiett, Group General Manager Finance at the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC). The new directors join the other Board members comprising Yusuf Usman (Chairman); Roger Brown; Oluwaseyi O. Omotowa; Oritsemeyiwa A. Eyesan; Effiong Okon and Okechukwu Mba. The strong board will provide leadership to AGPC to deliver the 300MMscfd capacity ANOH plant, located on OML 53 in Imo State, being built by AGPC. AGPC is the IJV owned equally between Seplat and the Nigerian Gas Company (“NGC”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (“NNPC”). ANOH is one of Nigeria’s most strategic gas projects. It will help Nigeria accelerate its transition from small-scale diesel generators to cleaner, less expensive fuels such as natural gas for power generation. Once ANOH gas plant is completed, AGPC will be a significant gas supplier to Nigeria’s power sector, supporting local employment and the cleaner generation of power for Nigerian homes and businesses.   Click Here>>>>>>Anti-kidnap and anti-theft device for tracking and listening<<<<<< 