From Fred Itua, Abuja The 2023 presidential ambition of the Governor of Kogi State, Yahaya Bello, has gained momentum, as youths under the umbrella of the All Progressives Congress National Youths Leadership, have urged to run. The youths lauded the leadership style of Bello which they said encompass all inclusiveness, bridge building and fostering of national unity, hence their call for him to run for the presidency in 2023 was non negotiable. Leaders of the APC youths group said this on Thursday when they paid a courtesy call him to congratulate him on his recent appointment as chairman, APC Mobilisation and Sensitisation Committee for the party’s registration and revalidation exercise. Speaking on behalf of the group, Mr. Abduljalal Ali Maitanakali stated that the governor has stood on the side of the people in times of difficulties, commending him for his strategic management of the COVID-19 pandemic in his state. He asserted that the governor was one who never spent public funds on foreign and local travels, noting that the governor travels by road across the country while some of his counterparts fly private jets at the expense of their people. The leader of the delegation described the governor as a core party man whose commitment has ensured the many successes the ruling APC has recorded so far. He disclosed that the coming of the governor to head the registration and revalidation exercise was the right move as the party was yet to get authentic data of all her membership. He assured that the youths in Nigeria would give total supports to the exercise, noting that they have huge confidence in the Yahaya Bello-led committee. He expressed confidence that the committee would ensure every member of the party was captured and well registered this time around. Mr. Maitanakali said the governor has demonstrated huge capacity in all ramifications that every well meaning person in this country is proud of, noting further that the governor was a “wonderful bridge builder who knows how to close the gap between the young and old.” He mentioned that in terms of membership records, no state in Nigeria comes close to Kogi, noting that the governor has grown the ruling party’s membership in Kogi far ahead of any other state in the country. “It is mandatory for the governor to run for presidency as there is presently a generational deficit in the country and no one has demonstrated such capacity of uniting the country as Yahaya Bello. “As an ardent follower of President Muhammadu Buhari since 1999, His Excellency is well qualified to succeed the president come 2023,” he added. He asserted that the appointment of the governor as the committee chairman has gingered youths to get involved in the party’s registration exercise, while calling on other stakeholders to prepare to work together and create a template that would be all encompassing and accommodating. In His response, Bello thanked the group and urged them to join in driving membership for the party. He said youths can’t be part of governance completely and in key policy formulations of government if they refused to participate in politics, noting that the APC has provided the needed platform for all Nigerian Youths to come in.   Click Here>>>>>>Anti-kidnap and anti-theft device for tracking and listening<<<<<< 