From Sylvanus Viashima, Jalingo  Following the rising wave of crime in the state generally and Jalingo specifically where acts of murder, armed robbery and kidnapping are fast becoming the new normal, Taraba state Governor Darius Ishaku has urged security agencies in the state to up their game in ensuring the protection of lives and property of the people. In a press statement issued in on Monday and signed by Muslim Aruwa Senior Special Assistant to the Deputy Governor on New Media, the governor also reiterated the ban on the use of motorcycle in the state capital and urged security agencies to confiscate any motorcycle found and to arrest the users for prosecution. “The Taraba State Government has observed with dismay the frequent use of motorcycles in Jalingo, the state capital in violation of government’s earlier directive. For the avoidance of doubt, ban on the use of motorcycles in Jalingo is still in force. “Government has therefore directed security agencies in the state to commence the immediate arrest and confiscation of all motorcycles found violating this order. Residents have been urged to be law abiding and support government’s decisions taken for security reasons”the statement read in part. Meanwhile, two persons suspected to be among the killers of the Chairman of Ardo-kola local government area in Taraba state, Salihu Dovo were brutally killed by Nahuta and Ardo-kola communities. An eye witness told our correspondent that the two persons were seeing trying to escape from Ardo-kola village with two AK.47 rifles few hours after the council boss was killed by gunmen. It was further gathered that some Youths of the village quickly raised the alarm to prevent the two persons from escaping. According to the source, the communities trooped out in their numbers, armed with assorted weapons and hacked the two fleeing suspects to death. The police public relations officer to the Taraba command DSP David Misal who confirmed the incident said the police has, so far, arrested three suspects in connection with the killing of the council Chairman, Salihu Dovo. Daily Sun recall that Mr. Salihu Dovo, council chairman of Ardo-kola local government area was kidnapped from his house in Jalingo in the early hours of Sunday by gunmen and killed alongside his nephew, Timothy Aminu.  Click Here>>>>>>Anti-kidnap and anti-theft device for tracking and listening<<<<<< 