Gov. Douye Diri of Bayelsa, on Sunday, joined other Christians in the state to offer praises to God for witnessing the first Sunday of 2021.
Diri, who worshipped at St. Peter’s Anglican Church in Sampou, his hometown, told the congregation that he never knew the community would produce a governor, while he was supporting the governorship aspiration of others.
A statement issued by the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Mr Daniel Alabrah, quoted Diri as saying that when it was time for God’s destined purpose, it would surely manifest.
He said: “Sometimes I wonder that all the time I had been supporting the governorship aspiration of others, I did not know that God had destined me, even before I was born, to be governor. So when your time comes, nobody can stop it.
“If the same God could do this for me, He will do it for you. Just be faithful, have free mind and He will do it again and again,” he said.
The governor urged Christians to be faithful to God in order to unlock more earthly blessings, just as he called on the people of the state to always give thanks and pay less attention to their worries.
“Let me commend the people of Bayelsa for taking out time across the state to thank God today. What can you offer to God other than to say ‘thank you’ to Him?
“He has the gold and the silver. He also has the power, as power comes only from Him.
“If not for God, I will not be standing here as governor. So we must continue to thank Him with everything we have daily.
“I, therefore, join the rest of the people of Bayelsa to say thank you Lord for keeping us to see this first Sunday of 2021,” Diri said.
He also urged the citizens to realise that they were special in the sight of God, adding that He always manifested Himself in the affairs of the state, whenever the agents of evil tried to plunge it into darkness.
“For us in Bayelsa, we are a special people, and until we realise that we are special, we will continue to give room for darkness,” he said.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the service was attended by members of the state executive council, traditional rulers, other appointees and dignitaries from across the state. (NAN)