Socio–Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) has urged the Senate President, Ahmad Lawan and Speaker of House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila to urgently review the 2021 appropriation legislation to stop the government of President Muhammadu Buhari from selling public properties to fund the 2021 budget and to identify areas in the budget to cut such as salaries and allowances for members and the Presidency to make sayings to address the growing level of deficit and borrowing. Minister of Finance, Mrs Zainab Ahmed, had last week reportedly confirmed that the Federal Government would sell some-government-owned properties to fund the 2021 budget. This is in addition to the government’s growing borrowing also to fund the budget. The government is reportedly planning to borrow N5.6 trillion from domestic and foreign resources to fund the 2021 budget. In a letter dated 16 January 2021, and signed by its deputy director Kolawole Oluwadare, SERP said the National Assembly has a constitutional and oversight responsibility to protect valuable public properties and to ensure a responsible budget spending. Allowing the government to sell public properties, and to enjoy almost absolute discretion to borrow to fund the 2021 budget would amount to a fundamental breach of constitutional and fiduciary duties. “Selling valuable public properties to fund the 2021 budget would be counter-productive, as this would be vulnerable to corruption and mismanagement. It would undermine the social contract with Nigerians, leave the government worse off, and hurt the country in the long run. It is neither necessary nor in the public interest. The country’s fiscal situation must be changed – and changed quickly – through some combination of cuts in spending on salaries and allowances, and a freeze on spending in certain areas of the budget such as hardship and furniture allowances, entertainment allowances, international travels, and buying of motor vehicles and utilities for members and the Presidency.” The letter, read in part: “The time is now for the leadership of the National Assembly to stand up for the Nigerian people, stop the rush to sell public properties, push for a responsible budget, and support efforts to have the government spend responsibly. Other areas to propose cutting include: constituency allowance, wardrobe allowance, recess allowance, and entertainment allowance.  Click Here>>>>>>Anti-kidnap and anti-theft device for tracking and listening<<<<<< 