From Rose Ejembi, Makurdi Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom has said that he is not nursing any plan to contest for presidency in 2023. Daily Sun gathered that a group under the aegis of “Project Ortomise Nigeria Ortomatically 2023” recently called on governor Ortom to throw his hat into the 2023 presidential race in order to rescue the nation from the dungeons of insecurity and other socioeconomic challenges bedeviling the country. National Coordinator of the group, Hon. Prince Samuel Onuh who made a post on Facebook Saturday evening, described Ortom as the only detribalised Nigerian with the political will to reunite all aggrieved ethnic nationalities and rescue the country from the grips of boko haram, bandits, insurgents, militants and other fundamentalists making lives difficult for the citizens. It was further gathered that the group had put plans in place to commence nationwide campaign aimed at pressurising the Benue State governor to heed their call and avail himself for the exulted office ahead of the 2023 general elections. A source close to Onuh said the group is mobilizing 10 million women, 10 million men and 10 million youths for a march in Abuja, Nigeria’s federal capital city, to pressurise the two term governor of Benue State to come to the nation’s rescue. But in a swift reaction, Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Terver Akase said his principal is currently preoccupied with delivering good governance to his people. “Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom sincerely appreciates his supporters and interest groups who have taken to social media to call on him to join the 2023 Presidential race. “The Governor however wishes to state that his preoccupation at the moment is delivering good governance to the people of Benue State.” Akase in the statement said Governor Ortom still has two and half years to complete his mandate as Governor and is committed to greater service of the State. “He (Ortom) particularly appreciates Benue people for the support given to his administration to succeed,” the statement concluded. Sent from Yahoo Mail on Android  Click Here>>>>>>Anti-kidnap and anti-theft device for tracking and listening<<<<<< 