The Igbo World Assembly (IWA) has said after reviewing  and assessing the pre-election issues and the electoral irregularities, that it has rejected  the just concluded  Ohanaeze Ndigbo election outcomes. This is even as the group has called for a caretaker committee of Ohanaeze Ndigbo  for about three months to  ensure unity of Ndigbo and also to  conduct credible, free and fair  election that would follow due process. The body also  expressed disappointment by what it termed the failure of Ohanaeze  to conduct elections that promoted Igbo unity, progress and development. IWA after a worldwide meeting held recently  in a statement jointly signed by its Chairman, Dr. Nwachukwu Anakwenze, Christian Onuorah, Vice Chairman    and  Oliver Nwankwor, Secretary General, said it  critically reviewed, assessed and analysed the issues and circumstances that led to the elections of disunity in Ohanaeze Ndigbo in particular and Igbo nation in general. “ It is our solemn duty to Ndiigbo to communicate and share our findings which serve as the basis of our decision and which will guide our future actions.” Speaking on the elections irregularities, IWA noted that Prince Okwukwu’s faction of Ohanaeze, election was held in secrecy without any transparency. Similarly, speaking on Chief Nnia Nwodo’s faction of Ohanaeze Ndigbo’s election, IWA said  that option-4 method was used during the election, but noted that  the process that led to option 4 was undermined and completely manipulated. In accordance with the constitution, election guidelines, according to IWA  were not issued to all the contestants at least seven days before the election day resulting to several credible candidates withdrawing from the elections to avoid giving legitimacy to a flawed election. According to the statement, the group stated that they  will neither recognize nor associate with any of the Ohanaeze Ndigbo parallel executives produced by flawed and unconstitutional elections. According to the statement,  IWA aligned with other patriotic Igbo Organisations under the auspices of Global Igbo Leaders that first advised Ohanaeze to follow Ohanaeze Ndigbo Constitution and the Electoral guidelines to the letter. “When that was not possible IWA, under the Global Igbo Leaders recommended that a properly constituted Ohanaeze Ndigbo Caretaker Committee be established to run the affairs of Ohanaeze Ndiigbo for about three months beginning the 10th of January 2021 to ensure the unity of Ndiigbo.” IWA recalled that  concerned  Ime Obi Ohanaeze members had equally called for caretaker Committee to be set up but the immediate past President General Chief Nnia Nwodo and the immediate past Secretary Prince Uche Okwukwu ignored those calls for unity.  Click Here>>>>>>Anti-kidnap and anti-theft device for tracking and listening<<<<<< 