From Paul Osuyi, Asaba Youths of Delta North Senatorial District (Anioma Nation) have handed down an ultimatum to their representatives at the National Assembly (NASS) to render a verifiable accounts of their stewardship since 2019. The youths under the aegis of Anioma Youth Forum Worldwide (AYF-W) frowned at the alleged non-challance of the elected representatives towards their constituents over the years, describing it as ugly, unacceptable and an aberration which must stop. Addressing newsmen in Asaba, national president of the group, Nnamdi Ofonye, specifically said the NASS members who include Senator Peter Nwaoboshi, Hons Ndudi Elumelu, Ossai N. Ossai and Victor Nwokolo should by the end of March, this year organise briefings to render accounts of stewardship. Ofonye warned that failure by the said representatives to comply, Anioma youths would not hesitate to organise massive protests both in Asaba and Abuja before initiating a recall process to sack the lawmakers. He explained that the ultimatum has become imperative as the lawmakers have continuously evade all entreaties for them to render accounts. “They evade us their constituents and have turned Abuja as their permanent abode, refusing to come home and even when letters and calls are put across to them, they call our bluff and refuse to give us audience even when it is our constitutional privilege and rights. “Worst still is the fact that there is hardly the existence of functional constitutional offices in their various constituencies. “AYF-W, on behalf of Ndi Anioma, demands that this ugly and unacceptable representation ends with immediate effect. This is an aberration that must be stopped,” he stated. Ofonye added that the affected elected representatives must make public the list of constituency projects supposedly executed between 2019 and 2020 for verification. “That we demand to know what projects are allocated to Anioma land in the 2021 budget that was just signed into law by President Muhammadu Buhari. This is to enable us prepare for full time inspection and monitoring,” he stressed. The AYF-W president was flanked by his deputy, Nwachukwu Ememosa; national secretary, Frank Odum; national publicity secretary, Elvis Ekwukwo; director of contacts and engagements, Williams Ugbo; director of research and planning, Samuel Anukwu, among other youths of Anioma extraction.  Click Here>>>>>>Anti-kidnap and anti-theft device for tracking and listening<<<<<< 