The Minister of Information and Culture, says besides getting security coverage from his Police Orderly, he also gets feedbacks through him on the pulse of the society about the government and his office. Alhaji Lai Mohammed revealed this in Abuja at a ceremony to decorate the Police Orderly, Mr Lucky Moses who was recently promoted by the Police Service Commission (PSC) from the rank of Inspector to Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP) The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Minister of Sports, Sunday Dare, whose Orderly, Luka Joshua was equally promoted and decorated with a new rank of ASP was also at the event. Speaking with NAN after the ceremony, Mohammed said Moses who had been his Orderly since the day he was sworn-in as minister in Nov. 2015,  is his “sounding board’’. He described Moses as an exceptional, loyal, dedicated and smart officer who had flair for news. “He exhibits his loyalty in various forms. He is pained when he hears anything bad about me and he tries to defend me. “More than that, Moses is like a sounding board for me and every morning, the first thing I ask him is: What are they saying in town about the government and your minister­? “You will be pleasantly surprised that, there is no popular Radio stations and discussions on them that he does not follow. “From his own way of understanding, he will present issues to me. “Sometimes, when some policies of government are misunderstood, I will take time to explain to him, what the people think and what is the real situation,’’ he said. The minister said he was very happy that the officer was being rewarded for his loyalty and dedication to duty, “I cannot remember when Moses was reported sick or ill in the past five years. “On the contrary, when I notice that he is slowing down, I will call him and tell him to take some days off. “His understanding of Police is different from that of an average policeman. “He eschews all the things we do not like in a policeman – he is punctual, dedicated and honest and above all, loyal. “I will encourage other officers to emulate him because I have not find him wanting in anything,’’ he said. On his part, Moses expressed gratitude to God, the Police Service Commission, the Inspector-General of Police for his commissioning to rank of officer. He thanked the minister for encouraging him and touching his life in many ways while promising to be more dedicated and committed to his duties. Speaking in the same vein, Joshua thanked his minister for standing by him, adding that the new rank is an additional responsibility to work harder and be more dedicated. (NAN)  Click Here>>>>>>Anti-kidnap and anti-theft device for tracking and listening<<<<<< 