From Okwe Obi, Abuja Coalition of Oduduwa Elders (COE), has raised the alarm over increasing spate of insecurity, warning that the country is sitting on a keg of gunpowder which may likely explode if drastic measures are not taken. COE National Coordinator, Dr. Tunde Aremu, in a statement yesterday condemned the crisis that rocked the Yoruba and Hausa community in Oyo State and appealed to the Federal Government, to address the problem before it escalates. Aremu further called on President Mohammdu Buhari, to fire the current service chiefs alleging that they have lost grip of the nation’s contemporary security affairs and rather, engage young and energetic officers with vast knowledge of modern-day security issues to handle the development. “As stakeholders in Yoruba land and the Nigerian project as a whole, we have watched with keen interest the unfolding events in the country, especially as they relate ro the South West region, and we wish to advise Mr president to urgently take steps that will restore public confidence in the nation. “We say this with all sense of responsibility, as our investigations show that failure to take action on the part of Mr. President may well be an invitation to another civil war, the end of which we cannot predict. “Our country is sitting on a keg of gunpowder, a time bomb if you like, and if nothing is done urgently, we may face another civil unrest, as the citizens are tired of the actions and inactions of the president in the area of security of lives and property. This has to change now before it is too late. “We dare say that the challenges faced by Nigerians currently, are a fallout of government’s failure to secure communities, and there is an urgent need for immediate and total restructuring of the entire security architecture of the country. “We mince no words in saying that restructuring must begin with the sack of the country’s Services Chiefs, and replacement with young and more competent officers. “We spoke against the violent attacks of some Fulani in the South West yesterday, because it is irresponsible to criminalise people on the basis of their tribe or religion. “However, the people of South West and every religion breaking under the weight of insecurity in Nigeria, have genuine rights to complain,” he said. He added: “Foreigners enter into our land and kill our citizens at will. In the South West, people can neither travel freely, or even access their farms owing to the presence of foreign terrorists. “It is, however, curious that even after admitting so-called foreign terrorists are responsible for the attacks in Nigeria, the Service Chiefs are still unable to arrest this ugly situation.”  Click Here>>>>>>Anti-kidnap and anti-theft device for tracking and listening<<<<<< 