Benjamin Babine, Abuja The National Institute of Marketing Nigeria (NIMN) has urged all Nigerians as well as marketing professionals in the country to look up to 2021 with confidence, courage and faith in God. NIMN, which is the umbrella body of all marketing professionals in Nigeria said in it’s new year message signed by the President/Chairman of Council, Mr Tony Agenmonmen, that owing to the second wave of the COVID-19, 2021 will also be challenging. He said: “But there has been no year like 2020, the year of COVID-19 pandemic. It has affected lives and livelihood all over the world. It has redefined in ways never imagined, how we relate and run our lives and businesses. We therefore have every reason to be grateful to God for surviving the crisis in 2020 and leading us to a New Year 2021.” Reeling out plans of the Institute in 2021, the President said the Institute will be having a transition election in the new year, to elect a new President to continue the drive. He encouraged all members to ensure they meet all the requirements to be in the Register so that they can actively take part in the elections, details of which will be communicated in the new year. He said despite the challenges of the pandemic, the Institute was proactive and early in adapting to the challenges created by the virus. According to him, within the overall constraints, the Institute was able to conduct almost all her programmes virtually with good results, including the
celebrated and very transparent Council elections. “In the outgoing year, we were also able to enact and publish the Code of Professional Marketing Practice that guides the ethical and professional conduct of marketing professionals in Nigeria.Regardless of the challenges, we kept our staff strength and paid their salaries in full as and when due. “We also have finally liquidated the long outstanding debts in salaries and gratuities to ex-staff that retired many years ago. The only major big-ticket debt remaining is the unremitted pensions which will be the focus of 2021. We continue to appeal to
those affected to appreciate that the Council is working hard to put all debt issues of the Institute behind us,” the statement read.  