From Okey Sampson, Umuahia The  Transition Committee Chairman of Ukwa West Local Government Area of Abia State, Chief Sylvanus Nwaji, has said he should not be crucified by members of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) for dumping the party for the All Progressives Congress (APC). Nwaji was a member of the APC before he joined PDP from where he was appointed the council chairman of Ukwa West which he served out on December 22, 2020. Nwaji’s defection back to APC last week which he described as homecoming has seen him received scanting media attacks by the PDP in the state and the Deputy Chief of Staff, deputy governor’s office, Government House Umuahia. Wondering why his decision to return to APC should raise such dust, Nwaji said the choice was personal and nobody has the right to question decision he has taken. ‘When I decamped from APC to PDP, they received me with funfair and now I have decided to go back to my family, the APC, I wouldn’t know why they are raising the dust.’ He said he would not want to engage his traducers in any media war because of the respect he has for Governor Okezie Ikpeazu whom he described as his friend of long-standing. Nwaji had while decamping to APC thanked the senate Chief Whip, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu, for receiving him back to the party he said will give him the platform to serve his people more. ‘I took permission from the Chief Whip of the Senate of Nigeria to go and serve my people and I am back to tell him that I have finished my service and back, and I thank him for his warmth acceptance and I say with the large heart, I will not disappoint him and if given any other capacity to serve in our party, I will not hesitate to be loyal.’ Presenting the broom to Nwaji on behalf the Chairman of the Caretaker Committee of the APC, Governor Mai Buni, Kalu commended the former local boss for his decision to rejoin the APC and asked him to register in his ward immediately. Kalu, who said he was glad Nwaji was back to the APC after rendering service to his community through the PDP, also urged him to sweep out all evils around him with the broom. 