From Molly Kilete, Abuja The Nigeria Police Force headquarters in Abuja has described as false media reports alleging that the Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu, plans to sell off the Police Officers’ Mess at Onikan, Lagos. Police spokesman Frank Mba said there is no truth to the report, clarifying that the project is undergoing renovation to make it a world-class edifice. Mba also said the new project will, in addition to a standard Officers’ Mess, include the development of a world-class three-star hotel, modern office spaces for lease, and a modern and easily accessible shopping complex. The FPRO in a statement issued Monday night said: ‘The attention of the Nigeria Police Force has been drawn to a publication in some sections of the media dated 17th January 2021 alleging plots by the Inspector-General of Police to sell off the Nigeria Police Officers’ Mess located at Onikan, Lagos. The story is totally false! ‘The Nigeria Police Officers’ Mess, Onikan, conceived decades ago, was built to cater for the welfare of Police Officers, provide transit accommodation for Officers on transfer or on special assignments and provide a conducive social environment suitable for their relaxation. Over time, however, the property has degenerated and shown structural defects requiring a massive renovation or outright rebuilding. ‘In a bid to restore its lost glory, provide a modern and befitting Officers’ Mess and tackle the defects of the old structure, the IGP and the Management Team took a decision to upgrade the existing Officers’ Mess to a world-class edifice. The new project will in addition to a standard Officers’ Mess include the development of a world-class three-star hotel, modern office spaces for lease, and a modern and easily accessible shopping complex. The new Mess will not only cater for the welfare of the Officers but will also provide an alternate stream of income for its maintenance and sustenance. ‘Upon completion, the project which is wholly owned by the Police and financed by the Police Cooperative Society, would improve the aesthetic value of the Onikan waterline, provide one of the best water view facilities on the Lagos Island and serve to improve social interaction between members of the Police Force and the general public. It is also expected to generate additional employment opportunities for teeming Nigerian youths, boost the internally generated revenue of Lagos State and generally improve the economy of the State. ‘It would have been unnecessary to respond to the deliberate misinformation, falsehood and outright mischief by the authors of the publications but the need to set the records straight and halt the intended damage to a well-thought-out project necessitated this response. ‘The IGP, therefore, enjoins well-meaning Nigerians to disregard the misinformation while members of the press should beware of rumour-mongering and the activities of those who aim to disparage and discredit well-thought-out projects.’  Click Here>>>>>>Anti-kidnap and anti-theft device for tracking and listening<<<<<< 