By Moses Akaigwe,  Unto the Mercedes-Benz passenger car segment is born the all-new GLB, which represents the best of both worlds from Mercedes with its strong SUV DNA. Designed to please “family and friends,” it is the 8th entry in Mercedes-Benz’s compact class as it joins the A-Class, B-Class, CLA, GLA, A-Class Saloon, CLA Shooting Brake and the long-wheelbase A-Class Saloon.  The newest member of the three-pointed star passenger car line-up is being introduced into the Nigerian market by the authorised general distributor of the country, Weststar Associates Limited, through its network of distributors. Commenting on the arrival of the all-new GLB, Mr. Mirko Plath, MD/CEO Weststar Associates Limited, said; “We are proud to introduce this brand-new addition in the Mercedes-Benz family to this market. The new GLB caters to a growing demographic which we have also identified here in Nigeria. We strongly believe that our customers will embrace this new product as they have with our better-known products.” The Mercedes-Benz GLB flaunts an exterior design with great off-road appeal with its front apron featuring a visual skid plate that emphasizes the GLB’s unmistakable SUV character. The radiator grille comes with a double louvre finished in chrome inserts and there is the option of a diamond radiator grille with pins in chrome for the AMG line. Another highlight on the front-end is the headlamps which come with the Multibeamed lighting technology. The side view comes with recognizable features like a raised roof railing in chrome finish, 17 – 20-inch light-alloy wheels, door panels and wheel arches (claddings). The rear-view features two-piece tail lamps with the reflectors relocated to the bumper, a chrome plated loading sill protector and visible tail pipe trim elements that complements the overall design of the vehicle. Sporting a high-quality design, the interior of the all-new GLB stands out with several comfort and luxury features. From fully digital displays to an off-road character, the GLB’s interior is interpreted in a young way. The dashboard wears a technical, avantgarde look, with the Widescreen Cockpit free-standing, positioned on the lower part of the dashboard, while the air-conditioning control panel wears an analogue-look with buttons in an aluminum finish. Other standout features include three different seat variants that offer good ergonomics and a high level of comfort, ambient lightening provided exclusively by energy-saving LEDs and a center console that comes with a stowage compartment which houses a cup holder, a 12 V socket and a USB port. The GLB impresses with plenty of space combined with compact dimensions, at 2829 mm the GLB has the longest wheelbase of the current compact-class generation from Mercedes-Benz. The headroom in the first seat row is 1069 mm –  an optimum in this segment. At 967 mm, the effective legroom in the rear of the five-seater is at an especially comfortable level. The car is equipped with MBUX (Mercedes-Benz User Experience), the system features as standard two 7-inch displays (optionally: 2 x 10.25-inch), a sports steering wheel with Touch Control buttons on the left and right, a USB port (Type C) and Bluetooth® connection for telephony and audio sources. The new GLB places its trust in the four-cylinder petrol engines which have been completely updated to re-launch the compact model series. In comparison to the previous generation, they are characterized by significantly increased power and torque. The GLB 200 uses a 1.66-litre M282 petrol engine with an output of 163hp (120kw) and a peak torque of 250 nm; while the GLB 250 4MATIC uses a 2.0-litre M260 petrol engine with an output of 224hp (165kw) and a peak torque of 350 nm. The GLB 200 and the GLB 250 4MATIC engines are paired with the 7G-DCT and 8G-DCT automatic transmission systems respectively. The GLB is also equipped with the permanent all-wheel system 4MATIC, with fully variable torque distribution. This sporty all-wheel drive configuration allows the driver to use the DYNAMIC SELECT switch to influence the characteristics of 4MATIC. The latest driving assist systems from the S-Class are also on board the new GLB. Thanks to improved camera and radar systems, the GLB is able to see up to 500 meters ahead and drive in semi-automated mode in certain situations. This includes, for example, the convenient speed adjustment ahead of bends, junctions or roundabouts carried out by Active Distance Assist Distronic.  The Active Lane Change Assistalso features as a new function of the Active Steering Assist in the GLB, and if the Active Parking Assist with Parktronic is additionally on board, it is included with the extended automatic restart function on motorways. 