From Ndubuisi Orji, Abuja Former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar, has said that the country’s diversity offers a rare opportunity of plural perspectives in seeking solutions to the problems confronting Nigerians. He said if citizens failed to take advantage of the diversity, the problems would continue to grow bigger, while “we” would be weaker. The former vice president charged Nigerians to embrace the new year with hopes of restoration and a stronger commitment to unity , cooperation and mutual love. He recalled that “the outgone year was quite dramatic and it is only by the grace of the Almighty God that we survived to witness the succeeding year. It is cheering that we are entering the New Year with refreshing news of a handful of certified vaccines against the dreaded COVID-19 virus. And better still is news of commencement of vaccination in some parts of the world. I am expectant that the vaccine(s) would soon be available for vaccination in Nigeria. It is also hoped that very soon life would return to normal. “As a country, we have taken our share of the blow that COVID-19 dealt to the globe. And worst still, we suffered a multi-facet downcast on account of of lazy and uninspiring leadership from the government at the centre – most especially. “But just as I often do, I pray that God should heal the hearts of families who have lost loved ones to the disease, as well as those who died on account of insecurity and ringing poverty occasioned by a poor management of our national economy. “The damage that the pandemic had done to our lives remains, and it would take some time for us to overcome. However, bad as the virus was, the fundamental lesson that the scourge reinforces is our bond as one species of homo sapiens, in which an attack on one is an attack on all. “Moving forward, we would require the same kind of cooperation that it takes to develop an antidote to COVID-19, to come up with solutions to many of the other ills that confront our world. Perhaps, that is the lesson to be taken from the pandemic, and it should be our pathway into the New Year. “Just like it was with the deadly virus, we are exposed to a common threat of terrorism, kidnapping and sundry criminalities; threat of economic meltdown, unemployment and poverty; and, even our solution to the problem of climate change must be within the focus of conserving the planet we call home. We cannot wholly defeat any of these threats if we refuse to cooperate and work together irrespective of our intangible differences. 