From Paul Osuyi, Asaba Youths of Nsukwa community in Aniocha South Local Government Area of Delta State on Monday appealed to Governor Ifeanyi Okowa to save them from alleged political marginalisation especially in the forthcoming March 6, 2021 council elections. The youths said they had remained faithful to the ruling People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in the state since 1999, lamenting however that there was nothing to show for it in terms of getting political positions. In a peaceful protest to Government House, Asaba, the youths under the aegis of Nsukwa Progressive Minds (NPM), alleged that the vice chairmanship slot which was zoned to Nsukwa ward 07 was hijacked by the governor’s appointee from Isheagu-Ewulu ward 09. According to the protesters who presented a protest letter to the governor, the said appointee, Joe Adigwe has already given the slot to his daughter as running mate to the chairmanship candidate of the PDP in Aniocha South LGA. Spokesman for the protesters, Kingsley Uchenna said Nsukwa autonomous community (ward 07) which is the head of Nsukwa clan in the locality, has no single appointee in government when smaller wards and communities under it have not less than three appointees each. “Our demands are simple Sir. We want a reversal of the nomination of the vice chairmanship position and a ward 07 son or daughter be given a chance. “Also, like other wards and communities in the local government, we want at least two state political appointees and a supervisory councillor in the coming local government administration,” the letter of protest read in parts. The letter begged for forgiveness from the governor, if they had offended his administration or did anything to hurt the PDP in the past. Receiving the protesters, a political aide to the governor and Director of Political Development and Mobilisation, Austin Onianwa, commended the youths for their peaceful disposition. Onianwa who spoke on behalf of the Senior Political Adviser to Governor Okowa, Funkekeme Solomon, said their message would be channeled to the appropriate quarter for urgent attention.  Click Here>>>>>>Anti-kidnap and anti-theft device for tracking and listening<<<<<< 