From Isaac Anumihe, Abuja The Federal Government has flayed Oyo State for the approval of  illegal mining and construction on the Ibadan-Ilorin  Section 2 of Oyo-Ogbomoso Road  project. Speaking during the inspection of the 56 km green field  road project in Oyo State at the weekend,  Director of Highway  Construction and Rehabilitation of Federal Ministry of Works and Housing,  Funso Adebiyi, lamented  that the encroachment on the right-of-way of the federal  road projects in Oyo State and illegal mining activities along the new alignments has impeded  the dualisation of the Ibadan-Ilorin  Road section 2  Oyo-Ogbomosho Road project. While appealing  to Oyo State government to  stop the  illegal encroachment on the Federal Government’s right-of-way, Adebiyi also cautioned drivers on their recklessness on the road. “We discovered  that the state government was giving approval to build and mine along the same alignment  of the road and this has created a huge problem  for the progress of work because the earth materials we would have used has been mined away.  It is not good and must be stopped,” he said. He stated that the project was initially awarded in 2010 to Messrs RCC Nigeria Limited and was later reviewed after augmentation  on November 2020 with a completion date of November, 2023. The director disclosed that the level of completion was 76 per cent  before  the contract was reviewed by the Federal Executive Council (FEC) which now brought the level of percentage completion to 40 per cent as a result of additional work  approved by FEC. He said that  the quality of job done  was of international standard, pointing out that the activities of illegal  mining and building activities were undermining the progress of work on the project. “Any such structure within the right of our way is illegal and that government would not pay any form of compensation. You cannot build on someone’s  land and still expect compensation,” he explained. In a statement, the Federal Controller of Works, Oyo State,  Mr Kayode Ibrahim, said that the contractor was working massively at the bridge locations and at various  stages of completion  on the five bridges, adding that 21.8km of asphaltic binder has been accomplished.  Click Here>>>>>>Anti-kidnap and anti-theft device for tracking and listening<<<<<< 