By Kate Halim The lady at the centre of the trending story involving the Managing Director of First City Monument Bank, FCMB, Mr. Adam Nuru over the paternity of her two children, Mrs Moyo Thomas has finally come out of her shell to reveal the circumstances that led to her separation from her late husband, Mr. Tunde Thomas. For over a week, social media have been awash with allegations of infidelity against Moyo leading to doubts about the paternity of her two young kids. She was accused of having an affair with Adam while she was still living with Thomas and that her kids are products of the illicit affair while she worked with Adam in FCMB before her relocation to the United States in 2017. Thomas was said to have died as a result of the trauma suffered from the scandal while Adam during the week stepped down from his seat as the bank MD to go on vacation to allow for a proper investigation of the swirling allegations. Though Moyo’s friends and family members had spoken in her defence, but in a statement personally signed by her and made available to Saturday Sun yesterday, Moyo told her story herself. “I write in reference to all the allegations and accusations that have recently been making the rounds on the internet and various social media platforms. I have refrained from responding to this matter for various reasons, one of which is to preserve the memories of Tunde who departed to be with his maker on December 16, 2020. Memories, not only to me, but to his children, who are still young, and to everybody who had a relationship with him. “Just like any marriage, Tunde and I had a lot of differences in our marriage, some of which even led to police intervention . But I remain committed to keeping only positive memories of him. No one can ever understand what transpired between us or what each of us experienced in the marriage; like they say, it is he who wears the shoes that knows where it pinches. In all of it, I never for once wished him bad. His untimely and sudden death is still a shock to me as it is to many others. “On no occasion did I ever tell him he was not the father of our two children. It is therefore deliberate falsehood and certainly malicious to allege and insinuate  that I informed him that the children are not his. The children still bear his name.  Only God knows why he died in an untimely period. It is not in my place, or anyone’s place to play God and talk with certainty as to the cause of his death, without proven medical facts. “Despite our separation, we never allowed our differences affect the relationships we respectively have with the children. He still had conversations with the children like any father will, up until his sudden and unfortunate  death. It is quite sad and disheartening to see the pictures of these innocent children splashed all over the internet with very disparaging and weird comments. “I do wish his family and friends the fortitude to bear the unfortunate loss and I ask that we all be allowed to grieve his loss in peace. He has now been laid to rest and we implore all and sundry  to please respect our privacy and allow those grieving his loss, including the children and I, to do so in peace.” 