Following the death of Pa Okorie Okowa, father of Delta state governor, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa, on Thursday, sympathisers thronged the Owa-Alero residence of the deceased octogenarian in Ika North East Local Government Area on Friday, to commiserate with the first family of the state.
The sympathisers were received by the governor, his wife, Edith and other members of the family.
Among them were the Chairman, Delta State Traditional Rulers Council and the Obi of Owa Kingdom, Dr. Emmanuel Efeizomor II; members of Owa Council of Chiefs led by Chief Kenneth Okocha; Delta State Commissioner of Police, Mohammed Alli; Chairman of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state, Chief Kingsley Esiso; Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Mr Chiedu Ebie and the Chief of Staff, Government House, Asaba, Chief David Edevbie.
Others were founder of, DAAR Communications, Chief Raymond Dokpesi; former Acting Governor of Delta, Rt. Hon. Sam Obi; the Commander, 63 Brigade, Nigeria Army, Asaba, Brig.-Gen. Abdulrahman Idris, Commissioner for Higher Education, Prof. Patrick Muoboghare; Economic Adviser to the governor, Dr. Kingsley Emu and Delta North Chairman of PDP, Mr Moses Iduh.
They also included the member representing Ika South Constituency in Delta House of Assembly, Mr Festus Okoh; Chairman of SUBEB, Mr Sunny Ogwu; Elder Emmanuel Ogidi, Dr Festus Okubor, Chief Lawrence Osiegbu and members of Saint Peter’s Anglican Church, Boji-Boji Owa led by Venerable Patrick Okoh.
Speaking to newsmen on behalf of Owa Council of Chiefs, the Okiroro of Owa, Justice Sylvester Ehiwario (retd.), said that as the Ojenyagbe of Owa Kingdom, late Pa Okowa was one of them.
According to him, members of Owa Council of Chiefs and the entire people of Owa Kingdom as well as Ika nation will miss him a great deal.
On his part, Chairman of PDP, Esiso, who described the late octogenarian as a “father figure to all”, disclosed that his demise was a very sad one “in that we are obviously going to miss his fatherly advice”.
On the condolence register, Chief Dokpesi wrote “the passage to great glory of our father, Arthur Okorie Okowa, came as a shock, but we take consolation in the fact that he lived an exemplary life worthy of emulation.” “He is completely fulfilled. I pray that God grants the entire family, Delta State and indeed all Nigerians, the fortitude to bear the loss.”  Click Here>>>>>>Anti-kidnap and anti-theft device for tracking and listening<<<<<< 