From Joe Effiong, Uyo  Akwa Ibom Democratic Forum, a socio-political association, has lauded the sterling performance of the Minister for Niger Delta Affairs, Sen Godswill Akpabio in turning around the fortunes of the region. The group has also commended the strides made by the sole administrator of Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), Mr Effiong Akwa in trying to rescue the dwindling interventionist agency. In a press statement made available to Daily Sun on Monday as signed by their convener, Obong Ekperikpe Ekpo, secretary, Dr Tony Usoro, and others, the Akwa Ibom Democratic Forum has also appealed to stakeholders in the Niger Delta project to shun divisiveness and promote peace, love and unity at all times for the progress of the region. The said; “Forum identifies with and appreciates in a special way Chief Godswill Akpabio on his achievements so far in the Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs especially the strides made on areas like East-West Road where work has commenced in earnest after a long abandonment; the completion and physical occupation of NDDC Headquarters which had been a pipe dream for more than 20 years; the forensic audit which is set to reverse the ugly trend that turned the Commission to a cesspool of corruption and reposition the interventionist agency for optimal development in the interest of the Niger Delta region.” The statement further ssi:; ”Forum appreciates the Interim Sole Administrator of the NDDC, Barr. Efiong Akwa on his performance so far, especially for reaching out to the stakeholders in the region to ensure peace in the Commission. It further calls on stakeholders in the region to give peace a chance for the envisaged development to occur. ” The equally expressed gratitude to President Mohammadu Buhari for the formation of Extraordinary Caretaker Committee for APC headed by Alhaji Mai Mala Buni and other members, urging them to be transparent in discharging their assigned responsibilities aimed at repositioning the party for greater success in the future. On the way forward for APC in Akwa Ibom State, the group called on the APC Caretaker Committee (CTC), Akwa Ibom State Chapter to constitute state caucus of the party as a matter of urgency and importance to ensure that decisions affecting the party in the State are only taken after due consultations with all the leaders of the party. The Forum also asked well meaning Nigerians to identify with Mr President in the struggle to rescue and restore Nigeria for the good of our people and generations yet unborn.   Click Here>>>>>>Anti-kidnap and anti-theft device for tracking and listening<<<<<< 