Molly Kilete, Abuja The kidnappers of seven children from Rachel’s Orphanage Home in Naharati in the Abaji Area Council of Abuja, FCT, have demanded N10 million in ransom. The abductors are also asking for another N20 million ransom to be paid for the release of the security guard at the home and a couple, Momoh Jimoh and his wife, Khadijat Jimoh, abducted alongside another housewife, Rukaiyyat Salihu. This comes as the operators of the orphanage are said to have relocated the remaining kids to a safer location for fear of another attack. The kidnappers had reportedly made contact with the operators of the orphanage and the relatives of their victims. The operators of the orphanage have appealed to the government and public-spirited individuals for help, saying they do not have the kind of money demanded as ransom. Daily Sun learned that the abductors made contact with the owners of the orphanage and relatives late Sunday evening and Monday morning, demanding the large sums. It was gathered that the management of the home complained of hard times, saying they find it difficult feeding and clothing the orphans. They were said to have told the kidnappers that they depend on the support of corporate organisations and NGOs to feed the orphans in their care. One of the caregivers at the orphanage, who asked to remain anonymous, said the kidnappers threatened to kill the children if they failed to raise the amount. The visibly frightened caregiver said, ‘they even threatened to waste the children if we fail to raise the N10 million ransom, but we still let them know that those children have no mother or father.’ The source said the home’s management has not reached an agreement with the abductors, even as security agents have been informed about the incident. A relative of the abducted couple told of how the abductors contacted him and demanded N10 million before the couple would be set free. ‘They didn’t even allow me to talk, as they insisted that the family should go and look for N10 million before the man and his wife will be set free,’ the relative said. FCT Police Command spokeswoman Maryam Yusuf said the police is making progress to rescue the victims alive and unhurt and appealed for calm.  Click Here>>>>>>Anti-kidnap and anti-theft device for tracking and listening<<<<<< 