From Priscilla Ediare, Ado-Ekiti Wife of Ekiti State Governor, Erelu Bisi Fayemi, on Friday, presented baby materials and cash gifts to the first and second babies of the year 2021 in the State. Erelu Fayemi while presenting the gifts to the parents of the babies at the state owned Hospitals in Ado-Ekiti and Ikole-Ekiti, said the state government would continue to invest in health care facilities in the state, with a view to ensuring conducive environment for patients, especially pregnant women. The Governor’s Wife, on visit to the health care centers was represented by the Commissioner for Women Affairs and Social Development, Alhaja Maryam Ogunlade. The hospitals visited included the Okeyinmi Health Centre, Ado-Ekiti; and Methodist Health Centre, Ikole-Ekiti, where the two babies were delivered. Alhaja Ogunlade congratulated the parents of the newborn babies for the safe delivery. The first baby of the year, a girl was born around 12:02 am to Mr and Mrs Abu Abdul at the Okeyinmi Health Centre in Ado-Ekiti. The baby who weighed 3.7 kilogrammes is the first child of the family. The second baby of the year, a boy was born to the family of Mr and Mrs Olukole Faluyi at the Methodist Health Centre in Ikole-Ekiti. He weighed 3.4 km. Alhaja Ogunlade, delivering the First Lady’s message, called on pregnant women in the state to always patronise government health facilities for safe delivery. “The government’s efforts in the prevention of maternal and infant mortality rate would be difficult to achieve if expectant mothers do not patronise modern facilities at already established health centres, she noted” She said, Development can not thrive in an atmosphere where there is no peace hence the need for mothers to give quality attention and priority to the well-being of their children,” she said. The Ado Local Government Chairperson, Mrs Omotunde Fajuyi and her counterpart from Ikole Local Government, Mr Sola Olominu, who received the delegation at the hospitals, thanked the First Lady’s representatives for their visit and appealed to parents in the State to ensure good upbringing of their wards. The babies’ parents appreciated the kind gestures of the Governor’s wife, saying that the items presented would go along way in caring for their babies. 