From Noah Ebije, Kaduna A factional group of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Zamfara State has taken a bold step to reconcile with a rival faction to work for the unity of the party and the state. The Senator Kabir Marafa led factional group on Saturday met with his critical stakeholders in Kaduna and discuss the way forward to meeting and reconciling with the other group led by the former governor of the State, Abdul-Aziz Yari. Briefing members of his group at the Kaduna meeting, Senator Marafa said: ‘Following the meeting convened by the Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee of our great party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Abuja, we are meeting with critical stakeholders of our faction (APC Mai Jama’a, which literally means APC of the grassroots) today in Kaduna. ‘You will recall that the chairman of the caretaker committee of our party, His Excellency, Governor Mai Mala Buni of Yobe State had on Monday in Abuja met with me and other stakeholders of our party from Zamfara State to address the lingering crisis in our state chapter. ‘At the meeting, we all agreed and reasoned to come together and work for the benefit of our people. The party is ours and we have worked and laboured for its growth. ‘In fulfilment of that pledge, we have convened this meeting with all the critical stakeholders of our faction, from all the 14 local government areas of Zamfara State to actualise the reconciliation move initiated by the party in Abuja. ‘As peace-loving and loyal party members, we are ready for a genuine reconciliation, where all will be carried along in the scheme of things in the party at all levels. ‘As you all know, ours is not a one-man-show, it is a movement, involving millions of Zamfara people who are satisfied with our leadership. ‘At this meeting, we will brief our members about the Abuja meeting and the next line of action which is genuine reconciliation. ‘It is our hope that the two factions of APC in Zamfara State are merged. ‘After this meeting, we will look at the possibility of meeting with the Yari’s faction on the way forward. We will extend hands of fellowship to the Yari’s faction with sincerity. ‘We will make demands for genuine reconciliation. In our religion, reconciliation is very important.’  Click Here>>>>>>Anti-kidnap and anti-theft device for tracking and listening<<<<<< 