The youth wing of Ohanaeze Ndigbo has congratulated Dr. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala on her emergence as the Director-General of the World Trade Organization, WTO.
Okonjo-Iweala was finally appointed for the top job on Monday during the WTO’s General Council meeting.
In a statement, the President-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council Worldwide, Mazi Okwu Nnabuike said the appointment was well-deserved and one that would benefit the entire member nations.
Okwu said, “As a former World Bank staff, finance minister and the coordinator of Nigeria’s economic team and a renowned economist, we are very confident that she will inject fresh ideas and contribute immensely to the development of many member nations.
“We thank President Muhammadu Buhari for his commitment in ensuring the emergence of this Igbo great daughter as the DG WTO.”
Also in the statement, the OYC congratulated the Imo State chapter of Ohanaeze led by Amb Akpelu Azunna on their inauguration last week at Owerri and urged other states to gear up for the inauguration of the youth wing soonest.
He called on the South-East governors and Ndigbo both home and in the diaspora to support Engr Chidi Ibeh to move the regional body forward and focus more attention on the actualization of the Igbo presidency come 2023.
OYC commiserated with the President of Arewa Youth Consultative Forum (AYCF) Alhaji Yerima Shettima on the death of his mother, Hajiya Raliya Muhammad, which occurred on the 15th of February 2021.
“God giveth and taketh at his will; as we pray for the repose of her soul, may God give the entire family the fortitude to bear this great loss,” Okwu said.
In a related development, the Igbo World Youth Congress led by Mazi Alex Okemmiri has congratulated the new President of OYC, urging him to carry everybody along and defend the Igbo course.
They also lauded the immediate past OYC President-General, Mazi Okechukwu Isiguzoro who is now the Secretary-General of the parent body of Ohanaeze for the peaceful transition.