From Paul Orude, Bauchi A group, Arewa Youths for Peace and Development has lambasted Benue State Governor Samuel Ortom for calling his Bauchi State counterpart Senator Bala Mohammed a terrorist. Chairman of the group Alhaji Salihu Magaji Mohammed stated this on Tuesday at Zaranda Hotel Bauchi , when he addressed a Press Conference, Magaji said every one in Nigeria knows Governor Mohammed as a nationalist who always defend the interest of masses and oppressed saying calling such a person a terrorist was unacceptable,erroneous, and unfair. “We demand unreserved apology to Nigerians by Governor Ortom for fanning the embers of disunity in the country ,his utterances and reckless statements and actions,* Magaji stated. The group accused Governor Ortom of unguarded utterances to cover his allegedly dastardly act of sponsoring thugs that maimed and killed many Fulani Herdsmen in Benue State. It accused Ortom of hatred and envy without regarding to the oath of office he swore to defend. “Governor Ortom is acting on his own selfish interest iand s moving in a wrong direction that he may not finish well, when he called a respected fellow serving Governor a terrorist he simply displays criminality and, thuggery in governance and a,lack of respect for the office and status of Governor. “Ortom ,lacks regard for the constitution of Nigeria” and he is creating unnecessary tension when there is no need for it. Today Benue is very unsecure . Every day people are being killed,maimed and chased out of the state, people are being intimidated by the governor and his thugs in violation of their fundamental human rights as Nigerian citizen in the name of anti grazing laws”. *That is not the way to do it. A governor, is supposed to have respect for human beings, protect them and provide essentials social services them and, treat them with respect not to make reckless statements or abuse a Governor and his office with the aim to tarnish his image and reputations hiding under his lack of performance through false allegations to serve as a cover to him. “This is a clear indication that Ortom is an enemy of Nigeria. Because he is fighting against justice ,unity ,peace and stability of the country” Magaji called on the Benue State House of Assembly to commence impeachment process against Governor Ortom for violating the oath of office he swore to defend. He said the country is in a desperate need of competent, transparent, detribalised and resourceful leader with democratic credentials to move the nation forward and few who met these criteria like Governor Mohammed must not be pulled down. He said: “Mohammed doggedness and ability to fix the numerous challenges confronting the nation was seen in his outstanding and impeccable performance as the FCT Minister for six consecutive years, which is yet to be surpassed till date years after he left office, and a man of integrity with this track record will not support crime and criminality but he can advised and said the truth no matter how bitter it is.”  He maintained that leaders in the country should refrain from making utterances that has the capacity to heat up the polity, pointing out that no nation can progress in a state of “we reteratedi that Governor Ortom needs to apologise to the people of Bauchi State and Nigeians for tagging Governor Mohammed as a terrorist because Bauchi people are not terrorists neither is the Governor. “Such a statement should not come out from the mouth of a leader who happens to be a mouthpiece of the people who everybody looks forward to as a role model. “Governor Mohammed has been working hard to foster peaceful coexistence in the country and not to disintegrate it.When he said fulanis herds should defend themselves, it was not to create tension in the country, but to profer solutions to the insecurity problems in the country” he said 