By Merit Ibe The Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA) has said the  flag off of the rail line traversing  Kano, Katsina up to Maradi  in Niger Republic by President Muhammadu Buhari will boost transport infrastructure for the successful implementation of the African Continental  Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) and economic activities.
As the network of this standard gauge railway across the country gathers speed, the association also appealed for improved innovative  private sector participation in the development and operations of the  various rail sectors.
The Director General, Ayo Olukanni, who made  the statement following the flag off of the rail line said as an extension of the rail sector in the Western axis, the Kano Maradi line is indeed a visionary move that would boost  logistics supplies all the way from the coastal ports in Nigeria to the various states it will pass through and up to Niger Republic.
Applauding the development, the DG noted that it is a strategic move to boost economic activities along the entire rail  line in this  corridor and up to Maradi, Niger Republic.
“This is considering the importance of such standard  rail  infrastructure to boost trade and economic ties with our  neighbours and improve standard of living of millions of  people in the respective states the line will pass through  and our  neighbouring country, Niger Republic.
“We also see this new rail link as a people-oriented  project for inclusive and sustainable economic growth and development;   in line with the vision of  Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) to upscale transport infrastructure in the ECOWAS subregion.  It is worthy of note that this rail project will  enhance faster and free movement of people as envisioned under ECOWAS,” Olukanni said.
“It  will also help to expand trade and economic activities between people on this rail corridor, and others  from various  geo-economic zones in the country including the Northern geo economic zone and  Niger Republic.
“As a land locked country the people and economic operators in Niger Republic,  will be delighted with this development because on completion, this standard gauge  rail system will significantly improve  transportation  logistics and expand  the volume  of goods and industrial raw materials,  which are currently conveyed as in-transit goods by trucks  from  Nigerian ports all the way to Niger Republic with attendant problems.
“An efficient rail system will certainly be of greater advantage and much better.
Similarly in context of the AfCFTA, this railway line is an appropriate transport infrastructure which the agreement also  underscored as part of the needed infrastructure to facililate movement of goods for the successful implementation of the agreement. As an extension of the rail sector in the Western Axis, the Kano Maradi line is indeed a visionary move that will boost  logistics supplies all the way from the coastal ports in Nigeria to the various states it will pass through and up to Niger Republic.
“And  as the network of this standard gauge railway across the country gathers speed we  appeal for improved innovative  private sector participation in the development and operations of the  various rail sectors across the country.” •    Click Here>>>>>>Anti-kidnap and anti-theft device for tracking and listening<<<<<< 