From Fred Ezeh and Charity Nwakaudu, Abuja Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) has again suggested to the Federal Government to solicit external assistance in its quest to tackle the growing insecurity in Nigeria.
CAN, though, commended the military and other security agencies, but indicated that the situation has overwhelmed them, hence the suggestion for foreign assistance to tackle the situation.
CAN President, Dr. Samson Ayokunle Olasupo, gave the suggestion in Abuja, yesterday, during the inauguration of the new executives of the youth wing of the Christian Association of Nigeria (YOWICAN).
Dr. Ayokunle who was represented by the Assistant Secretary General of CAN, Biodun Soweolu, expressed hope that such intervention could help to solve the problem of insecurity in Nigeria.
He said: “We are seriously worried about the security state of Nigeria. Christianity or any other religion is about the people. All these killings happening everywhere in Nigeria are against the human race. CAN has spoken several times against it, but little or nothing was done in response.
“It appears that the situation is overwhelming to the government. We will continue to pray for them. We all know that there is lack of security everywhere; nobody is safe, even when you are in your house, you are not safe.
“The first assignment of any government is to protect the people but even they, themselves are not safe. This insecurity has got to a worrisome point and I know that President, Muhammadu Buhari, is also worried and will be ready to reach out to external bodies to get help. I plead with the President to reach out to Israel and other countries that will be of help to us.”
He urged the newly elected officials to live a Christ-like life, reminding them that leadership is service that comes with burden.
In his remarks, the YOWICAN president, Belusochukwu Enuere, appreciated God for giving him the opportunity to serve and pledged to represent the Christian youths adequately.   Click Here>>>>>>Anti-kidnap and anti-theft device for tracking and listening<<<<<< 