From Priscilla Ediare, Ado-Ekiti Former Governor of Ekiti State Ayodele Fayose has called for the immediate release of the sacked Special Adviser on Media to Governor Umar Ganduje of Kano State, Tanko Salihu Yakasai, describing his arrest as ‘another sad commentary on how low this APC government of President Muhammadu Buhari has gone.’ Fayose, who commended Salihu Yakasai for being courageous enough to speak truth to power, said: ‘This singular action of his has made him the latest hero of our democracy, and in turn confirmed that there is hope for a united Nigeria.’ In a series of tweets on Saturday, Fayose said it was sad that Nigerians cannot criticize the same President Buhari, who did not only speak against his predecessors, but also led protests. ‘I join all well-meaning Nigerians to demand for the immediate release of Salihu Yakasai. He did not commit any offence to warrant being taken into custody. ‘That he was arrested like a common criminal by the DSS just because he spoke his mind against a President that is more like the servant of the people is another sad commentary on how low this APC govt of Buhari has gone. ‘Sad that under this govt, our security men are only efficient in persecuting whoever speaks against the President. Sad too that Nigerians can’t criticize the same President who did not only speak against his predecessors, but also led protests.’ Commending Salihu Yakasai, Fayose added: ‘I commend the courage of Salihu Yakasai, the sacked Gov Ganduje’s Aide for being able to speak truth to power. ‘This singular action of his has made him the latest hero of our democracy, and in turn confirmed that there is hope for a united Nigeria. ‘Nothing can be more honourable than what he has done by standing tall amidst darkness and selfishness of leadership. ‘His sack is the beginning of his rise politically. I sincerely congratulate him and indeed the ordinary Nigerians seeking good governance and leadership. On #BuhariMustResign we stand.’ I commend the courage of Salihu Yakasai, the sacked Gov Ganduje's Aide for being able to speak truth to power. This singular action of his has made him the latest hero of our democracy, and in turn confirmed that there is hope for a united Nigeria. — Peter Ayodele Fayose (@GovAyoFayose) February 27, 2021  Nothing can be more honourable than what he has done by standing tall amidst darkness & selfishness of leadership.His sack is the beginning of his rise politically.I sincerely congratulate him & indeed the ordinary Nigerians seeking good governance & leadership.#BuhariMustResign — Peter Ayodele Fayose (@GovAyoFayose) February 27, 2021  I join all well-meaning Nigerians to demand for the immediate release of Salihu Yakasai. He did not commit any offence to warrant being taken into custody. #FreeDawisu — Peter Ayodele Fayose (@GovAyoFayose) February 27, 2021  That @dawisu was arrested like a common criminal by the DSS just because he spoke his mind against a President that is more like the servant of the people is another sad commentary on how low this APC govt of Buhari has gone.  #FreeDawisu — Peter Ayodele Fayose (@GovAyoFayose) February 27, 2021  Sad that under this govt, our security men are only efficient in persecuting whoever speaks against the President.Sad that Nigerians can't criticize the same President who did not only speak against his predecessors, but also led protests. #FreeDawisu — Peter Ayodele Fayose (@GovAyoFayose) February 27, 2021 