 From Felix Ikem, Nsukka Hon. Jonathan Chukwuma has counseled Nigerian youths on the dangers of committing suicide, urging parents and other stakeholders to help government in it’s efforts and campaign against the ugly act. Jonathan, who is Special Adviser to the Governor of Enugu State on Inter-Party affairs, made the call Tuesday in Nsukka during the unveiling of a book written by comrade Thomas Ezeagu at Ikenga hotel and resorts Nsukka, Nsukka Local Government Area of Enugu State. The book christened “Suicides” according to the reviewer, Gwiyi Solomon, intends to discourage suicide as an end to myriad of life’s threatening challenges which confront mankind especially the youths on daily basis. Addressing guests who were mostly youths at the book launch, Jonathan who incidentally was chief launcher of the book told the audience that “no challenge is worth the life of any human being.” Drawing a lesson from the book, the former deputy speaker of Enugu state House of Assembly narrated how a young undergraduate, Mike who is the protagonist in the book was confronted by overwhelming challenges which included a combined albatross of ill-health and inability to pay his tuition and was left with the option of taking his life, but he heeded the advice and intervention from Charles, his course mate. He however, frowned at suicide as a means to an end, even as he described people who take their lives following difficulties as “cowards.” “It is no longer new to us that people take their own lives on daily basis when plunged into difficulties. But that is not the way out, but cowardice. “Hard times come to make us better, as it brings with it bitter lessons and experiences that would eventually be transferred to generations unborn. So, let us take a cue from how the protagonist in the novel got saved from counsels from his course mate, Charles.” The SPA who further praised Enugu state Governor, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi for creating a conducive environment for youths in the state to thrive and develop their God-given talents, urged participants in the event to continue to support and pray for the number 1 citizen of the state, whom he described as “working tirelessly to leave legacies that would outlive the present generation.” “The rate of suicide in Enugu State is minimal compared to other states across the nation. This is because the governor has made the environment conducive for our youths and residents alike, to live and pursue their callings without hitches. “In that sense, all we owe His Excellency is suports. We owe him prayers because the governor is someone who is awake from morning till another morning, and yet beams with smiles,” “At the same time parents and other relevant stakeholders are expected to who join hand in the campaign against suicide in the States by rating closely with their words, identifying and solving issues that can lead to suicide,” he said. Earlier in a remarks, the Hon. Commissioner for environment, Mr. Chijioke Edeoga applauded the writer for putting up such work; while explaining that while Japan and other country embrace suicide, the Igbos abhor such action and everything traceable to it. He described suicide as an act of intentionally causing one’s own death, which is usually caused by mental issues and hopelessness which can be tackled if parents pay proper attention to children’s. Also speaking during the program, Hon. Chinonso Ugwueze, who is the chairman of the occasion and SPA to the governor of the state louded the writer for conceiving the thoughts of discouraging “suicide” as a means to an end. The SPA further assured the gathering of Governor Ugwuanyi’s commitment to ensure that youths of the state are engaged in profitable ventures capable of helping them to achieve their goals, urged the participants to pluck into these opportunities by reaching out to the agencies in charge of such programs. The Author of the book, Ezeagu who hails from Ugbene-ajima in Uzo Uwani LGA of Enugu State expressed gratitude for the level of supports given during the book launch, explained that he dedicated the book to Governor Ugwuanyi because of his love for youths in the state; which he has continued to demonstrate through his appointments of youths in his administration.  Click Here>>>>>>Anti-kidnap and anti-theft device for tracking and listening<<<<<< 