Welcome to the concluding part of this teaching! I hope you were blessed by last week teaching. This week, we shall focus on: God Empowers His People on the Altar of Prayer and Fasting!
We discovered from Scriptures that God will only empower those who crave it because empowerment is not a Christmas gift. As it is written, In the last day, that great day of the feast, Jesus stood and cried, saying, If any man thirst, let him come unto me, and drink. He that believeth on me, as the scripture hath said, out of his belly shall flow rivers of living water. But this spake he of the Spirit, which they that believe on him should receive: for the Holy Ghost was not yet given; because that Jesus was not yet glorified (John 7:37-39). The Holy Ghost is already here; however, He is only accessible by those who are thirsty for Him. A thirst connotes a crave and desperation for empowerment into next levels. However, empowerment of the Spirit answers largely to prayer and fasting. The Bible says, Howbeit this kind goeth not out but by prayer and fasting (Matthew 17:21). To change our levels, we need to engage in prayer and fasting because it will require more than faith to deliver. So, it takes a thirst to secure empowerment into next levels (Isaiah 41:17-18, 44:3-4). When we get empowered above those things, they will bow out on their own.
Prayer and fasting are non-negotiable requirement for empowerment and re-empowerment. David said, O God, thou art my God; early will I seek thee: my soul thirsteth for thee, my flesh longeth for thee in a dry and thirsty land, where no water is; To see thy power and thy glory, so as I have seen thee in the sanctuary (Psalm 63:1-2). The longing of the flesh is fasting and the essence of empowerment is the conferment of dominion, to put us on top of life’s situations and circumstances. Empowerment has nothing to do with how young or old we are in the faith, it has to do with our own commitment to the revelations of the hour so we can make the most of it. Paul the apostle said, In weariness and painfulness, in watchings often, in hunger and thirst, in fastings often, in cold and nakedness (2 Corinthians 11:27). That brought out the spiritual giant in him (Acts 14:11, 19:15; 28:3-6). The core mission of fasting is the empowerment of the saints. As it is written, Is not this the fast that I have chosen? to loose the bands of wickedness, to undo the heavy burdens, and to let the oppressed go free, and that ye break every yoke (Isaiah 58:6).
Also, understand that empowerment of the Spirit usually triggers supernatural breakthroughs. When Jesus returned empowered, the world came under His feet and His fame was all around the country. Concerning Him, the Bible records, And Jesus returned in the power of the Spirit into Galilee: and there went out a fame of him through all the region round about. And the fame of him went out into every place of the country round about (Luke 4:14, 37). Empowerment usually triggers supernatural breakthroughs, breaking impossible barriers, triumphing where others travail and that was demonstrated in the life of Cyrus (Isaiah 45:1-3). That is the natural characteristics of empowerment; it subdues nations and renders kings helpless. Most importantly, we must understand that Jesus is the baptiser of the Holy Ghost and the Father is the Anointer ((Matthew 11:3; Acts 10:38). The word ‘anoint’ means empower. Therefore, one of the requirements for continuous empowerment is stewardship. As it is written, Behold my servant, whom I uphold; mine elect, in whom my soul delighteth; I have put my spirit upon him: he shall bring forth judgment to the Gentiles (Isaiah 42:1). Serving God entitles us to empowerment and re-empowerment; however, it takes desperation to qualify for empowerment.
In summary, the altar of prayer is not limited to demanding for our desires but it is a platform for craving empowerment into next levels and beyond that. It is also a platform for securing answers to the bugging questions around our lives. Every genuine question of the believer is entitled to an answer from the Lord (Matthew 7:7-8). Remember, asking sincere questions with preparedness for answers is one of the ways to maximise the season of prayer and fasting. However, you must be born again. If you are not, this is an opportunity to do so. Simply say the following prayer: Lord Jesus, I come to You today. I am a sinner. Forgive me of my sins. Cleanse me with Your precious Blood. Today, I accept You as my Lord and personal Saviour. Thank You Jesus for saving me! Now, I know I am born again! For further reading, get my books: Winning Prayer, Satan Get Lost and Born to Win. I invite you to fellowship with us at the Faith Tabernacle, Canaanland, Ota, the covenant home of Winners. We have four services on Sundays, holding at 6:00 a.m., 7:55 a.m., 9:50 a.m. and 11:45 a.m. respectively. Also, you can join our live services via Facebook: David Oyedepo Ministries International, Twitter: @Davidoyedepomin, Instagram: davidoyedepomin, YouTube: Living Faith Church Worldwide, Hebron 95.9 FM, Winners World App, Impact Africa TV (on Startimes and NigComSat), Domi Radio and via the Church Satellite. I know this teaching has blessed you. Write and share your testimony with me through: Faith Tabernacle, Canaanland, Ota, P.M.B. 21688, Ikeja, Lagos, Nigeria, call 01-4548070, 01-4548280, or E-mail: dphprints@gmail.com. Click Here>>>>>>Anti-kidnap and anti-theft device for tracking and listening<<<<<< 