From Benjamin Babine, Abuja  Following the Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN) decision to restrict cryptocurrency transactions, the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC), says the implementation of virtual assets and cryptocurrencies pose a security threat to country. The Chairman of the ICPC, Prof Bolaji Owasanoye, SAN, said this while making a presentation to the Senate Committee on Banking, Insurance and Other Financial Institutions during its hearing on the CBN’s decision which had caused controversy. Prof. Owasanoye said: “Virtual and cryptocurrencies pose serious legal and law enforcement risks for Nigeria. The current National Identification Number registration and linking with SIM cards is a pointer to the fact that insurgents, terrorists, kidnappers, bandits, and drug merchants have used the anonymity of unregistered SIM cards to commit their crimes with relative ease. “Cryptocurrencies guarantees similar anonymity and can easily be used as leverage for terrorist financing and other crimes. With the NIN registration, cryptocurrencies may become an alternative payment platform for kidnappers and this would be impossible for law enforcement to agencies to trace.” Citing a case study of an investigation by the ICPC, Prof Owasonoye said the Commission is currently having difficulties investigating a money laundering case involving hundreds of millions of naira, because of the involvement of cryptocurrency transactions. According to him: “The main suspect used technology in placing the money in the banking sector. A sizable amount was traced to several bank accounts but before investigators recovered some of the money, a large proportion had been made to disappear using serpentine ICT-aided transfer schemes that has so far eluded investigators. “While the persons whose accounts were used have been located, the criminal mastermind has remained invisible and unidentified. This real ongoing case is a glimpse into the world of anonymity of virtual or digital transactions. With cryptocurrencies, the wallet of the user of cryptocurrency system only store information, or encrypted links in the Blockchain where transaction confirmation can be found. “There is no movement of any ‘currency’ in the real sense of the word. By their very nature, they provide considerable anonymity that is almost impossible to be accessed by unauthorized persons, including law enforcement authorities.” The ICPC boss went on to identify the use of virtual assets and cryptocurrencies for criminal activities, as the major issue for which implementation is risky. “The use for criminal activities is the most obvious risk of virtual assets and cryptocurrencies. It has been reported that ‘criminally associated bitcoin addresses sent over $3.5 billion worth of bitcoin in 2020’. “This figure includes BTC addresses controlled by dark markets, ransomeware actors, hackers, and fraudsters. Most of this bitcoin will ultimately need to be laundered by these criminals, meaning it will make its way to an exchange where it can be converted to fiat currency and transferred to a bank,” he said. Listing other risks, he said: risk to finance of government, risk of theft of cryptocurrencies, abuse as medium of payment for hackers and ransomeware, risk of exit scams, risks of use of crypto assets for ponzi schemes, risks of tax evasion, and risk as a source of corruption-linked illicit financial flows. He further explained that the CBN’s ability to regulate monetary policy will be lost due to the fact that cryptocurrencies are issued by private entities, which are foreign, and not issued or regulated by the bank. “It is plausible that we cannot wish virtual assets away. Central Banks in many jurisdictions are considering floating officially recognized cryptocurrencies. Whether the time is right for the Central Bank of Nigeria to follow suit is anybody’s guess, but legal guidance is needed if any fresh initiative in that direction is to have legal force,” he added. 