The Bariga Police Division of the Lagos State Police Command has arrested four members of the Oodua People’s Congress (OPC) for allegedly beating up and stabbing one Tochukwu Chidi to death. This was contained in a statement signed on Sunday by the Lagos State Public Relations Officer, Chief Superintendent of Police (CSP) Olumuyiwa Adejobi. Adejobi said that the suspects were Sunday Onilede, m, 35, Azan Razak, m, 35, Abdullahi Ibrahim, m, 29, and Fatai Taiwo, m, 40. The police spokesperson said that the suspects attacked Chidi, m, 35, of No. 76, Arobadede St., Bariga, and in the process inflicted injuries on him after an argument at Temple St., Bariga, Lagos, on Saturday. “He was rushed to the General Hospital, Bariga, for treatment where he was confirmed dead,” Adejobi said in the statement. He said that the state Commissioner of Police, Mr Hakeem Odumosu, condemned the act and directed that the case be transferred to the state Criminal Investigation Department, Panti, Yaba, for proper investigation and prosecution. He said that the Surulere Police Division of the Police had also arrested one Arinola Peter, m, at Empire Area of Surulere with a pistol while he was negotiating and harassing one commercial sex worker. “The suspect intended to use the pistol to intimidate the lady to agree to his terms and the amount he wanted to pay, but the lady insisted on a certain amount of money. “Peter brought out the pistol and wanted to force the lady to have sex with him,. The lady raised an alarm and Peter was overpowered and arrested by the people around the brothel. “Further investigation revealed that the suspect used to assist an armed robber (name withheld) to keep the pistol for operations,” the police spokesperson said. Adejobi said that the police later recovered five rounds of ammunition in the room of the commercial sex worker during the course of their investigation. “The Commissioner of Police has ordered that the owner of the pistol, who is now at large, be apprehended by all means and brought to book. “He (commissioner) assured Lagos residents of adequate protection of their lives and property,” the statement said. According to Adejobi, the commissioner vowed to go after the criminals and hoodlums in the state. (NAN)  Click Here>>>>>>Anti-kidnap and anti-theft device for tracking and listening<<<<<< 