From Noah Ebije, Kaduna A Non-governmental organization under the auspices of Network for Positive Democracy in Nigeria (NPDN) has called for immediate suspension of all processes toward the inauguration of the new Vice Chancellor, Prof. Abayomi Fasina for the Federal University, Oye, Ekiti (FUOYE) because of alleged corruption. The group in a press statement signed by its Director of Publicity and Strategy, Comrade Johnson Chukwuemeka said that the swearing-in of Prof. Fasina as the new Vice Chancellor of Federal University, Oye Ekiti, “will not only undermine all efforts of President Muhammadu Buhari in fighting corruption in Nigeria but will as well encourage the use of corrupt and sharp practices as best means of getting to exalted position”. The group further alleged that, “the proposed new Vice Chancellor Professor Abayomi Fasina has no fewer than five petitions against him before the ICPC, CCB, Minister of Education, National University Commission and the Presidency. “The pendency of all of these petitions against Professor Abayomi Fasina has made it imperative for all lovers of good governance and exemplary leadership in Nigeria to query the rationale behind his choice”. The group also added, “we are acting in public interest and we have a catalogue of the allegations against Professor Abayomi Fasina which include, Official indictment for collecting double salary from the Federal University of Oye and the Ekiti State University simultaneously for several months which is tantamount to automatic disqualification
from his earlier invitation for the screening exercise”. “Professor Abayomi Fasina master minded the exclusion of the Federal Character Commission from the Screening Committee because the Commission’s report was against Prof. Abayomi Fasina who hails from Ogun State and wanted to succeed the out-going Vice Chancellor Prof. Kayode Soremekun who also hails
from Ogun State. “The swearing-in of Prof. Abayomi Fasina as the new Vice Chancellor of FUOYE will be against the mantra of change and the anti-corruption stand of the President Muhammadu Buhari led Federal Government. “We are therefore calling on the
Senate President, Senator Ahmad Lawan, Speaker House of Representative, Rt. Hon Femi Gbajabimila, Secretary to the Federal
Government Hon. Boss Mustapha, Chief Of Staff to the President, Professor Ibrahim Gambari and the Minister of Education Adamu
Adamu to ensure that Prof. Abayomi Fasina is not sworn in as the new Vice Chancellor of Federal University Oye, Ekiti because his inauguration could lead to several protests and legal actions”. The group added that the allegations against Prof. Fasina were contrary to the rules and regulation governing the conditions of service of CONTISS 06/ CONTISS 01 and violations of Chapter 3 section 4 of the Public Service Rules 2018 Edition. The statement called for a pragmatic review of, “the screening processes to revisit the performance of the three candidates that were invited for the screening exercise in both written and oral examinations visrà-vis their credibility ratio”.   Click Here>>>>>>Anti-kidnap and anti-theft device for tracking and listening<<<<<< 