The Chief Executive Officer of the Nigerian Export Promotion Council (NEPC), Mr. Segun Awolowo, has expressed delight over the attainment of Global Organic Certification status for Nigerian sesame seed by WACOT Nigeria from ECOCERT International.
He disclosed this on Tuesday in his Abuja office when he hosted the National Sesame Seeds Association of Nigeria (NSSAN) led by the President, Mr Sheriff Balogun and his Deputy, Mr Sadiq Kassim.
According to Awolowo, this day marked a landmark achievement for Nigeria as WACOT Nigeria Ltd attained the Global Organic Certification Status of the Nigerian Sesame Seed by ECOCERT International, the first of its kind in the history of the country, placing Nigeria on the World map of organic product producers and marketers.
The Association acknowledged NEPC’s role in promoting and supporting the NSSAN through stringent emphasis on quality product standards and various collaborations in capacity building of rural farmers in Good Agricultural Practices along the value chain.
He said: “It was indeed an honour to be presented with the certificate by the President of NSSAN.
We spoke about the establishment of commercial Hulling Facilities for the seeds to support the growth of the sector. NEPC looks forward to supporting NSSAN.”
In the same vein, the NEPC boss, hosted the CEO of Shea Tribe, Ms Kanyinsola Demola-Seriki, an an indigenous company, proudly made in Nigeria that creates 100 percent organic and handmade skincare/grooming products.  Materials for products are sourced locally in Saki, Oyo State. Her mission is to promote healthy living, introduce African beauty and health formulas to the world. She decided that in order to do this she needs the support of NEPC to grow her business exponentially.
Awolowo added that NEPC is a strong supporter of women and youth in export development and in her, NEPC has found both. “NEPC looks forward to accompanying her on her journey to the international market place.”  Click Here>>>>>>Anti-kidnap and anti-theft device for tracking and listening<<<<<< 