By Romanus Okoye, Lagos The first female Dean of the Faculty of Law, University of Lagos (UNILAG), Prof Chioma Kanu Agomo, will on March 1 retire from the university as she clocks 70 years. Several events have been lined up to celebrate her exit from the institution after over 40 years of service as a foremost law teacher and expert. In addition to a Special Board of Studies session and Valedictory Lecture being organised by the Faculty of Law, a Thanksgiving Service will hold on March 1 at 10 am at the Chapel of Christ Our Light, University of Lagos, Akoka, the Thanksgiving Service will also be streamed live at bit.ly/agomothanksgiving. An autobiography titled, “My Story, My Song”, will also be unveiled on the same day at 1pm at the Church’s Global Christian Centre (GCC) Auditorium. While the Vice Chancellor of the University of Lagos, Prof Oluwatoyin Ogundipe is the Chief Host for both events, the Secretary to Abia State Government, Chris Ezem (also a Lawyer) is the Guest of Honour. The book presentation will be chaired by Dr. Kingsley Ononogbu, while renowned law teacher and jurist, Prof Taiwo Osipitan, SAN, is the book presenter. The book reviewer is Prof Chimdi Maduagwu, Director of the Confucius Institute at UNILAG. Attendance at both events is however strictly restricted, due to COVID-19 regulations. Prof Agomo was born on March 1, 1951 to Sir Henry Kanu Offonry, OFR, and Madam Chijiago Stella Udeogu of Nkpa in Bende Local Government of Abia State. Chioma’s parents separated in 1954, when she was three years old. She was thereafter, raised by her paternal grandmother, Madam Nnenne Ogbodiya. After her early education, she was admitted by Queen Mary College, University of London to read Law in 1973. She graduated in 1976 with an Upper Honours Bachelor’s degree and earned her Master of Laws (LLM) degree (with Merit) in 1977. She returned to Nigeria in September 1979 and enrolled at the Nigerian Law School. She was admitted to the Nigerian Bar in 1980. From September 1980, she undertook her National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) primary assignment in the Department of Commercial and Industrial Law, University of Lagos. She was retained immediately after her service year in 1981, and thus began her UNILAG career that has spanned almost 41 years. Agomo rose through the ranks to become a Professor of Law of the University of Lagos in 2001, notionally backdated to 1999. She is a member of the Board of Trustees of various organisations including the Nigerian Association of Law Teachers (NALT) and Prison Fellowship Nigeria (PFN); Council and Life Member of the Nigerian Society of International Law; Member, Nigerian Bar Association; former Chairperson, Chapel Committee, Chapel of Christ Our Light, University of Lagos, and currently its honorary Legal Adviser. Professor Agomo is an Honorary Fellow of her alma mater, Queen Mary College, University of London, and a Fellow of the Nigerian Institute of Chartered Arbitrators. Prof Agomo is married to Dr Philip Agomo. She is a proud mother of two biological sons and two grand-daughters, and is also blessed with many non-biological children and grand-children, who have all enriched her life. 